okay we are
live
whoops yeah it's probably fine puffer's
fine so we've got some cool stuff to
look
at talk to work on several
things uh let's see I want to start
though
today we're going to look at these
experim ments in a
second I want to start with one thing
real quick on
Twitter which
is I have a collaborator who's back
from where is
it I just saw this notification where is
it oh there it is
oops
let me make one post here and then we'll
go through experiments uh definitely go
follow kyong he hasn't really used
Twitter much up until now but uh no he's
getting into the AI game which
unfortunately means mandatory
Twitter so let's get him started on that
there we
go got it
where's set
okay we are ready to get started here
so we have some cool
results some very cool results I
actually I got up this
morning uh really early and I made some
some changes as well so I don't know
what's up with this pong
sweep we're going to look into a little
bit today cuz this is really
weird uh so we'll have to figure this
out let's start with the one that
actually looks good which is the
new sweep
here
jeez I always jump on stream right after
I get out of the shower and the result U
anyways here we
have the these 59 runs and then these 21
runs I
believe okay I think I'm
good so we have this is what happened
yesterday with the
runs so
what on
Earth welcome YouTube
folks I am not
dying we have some cool experiments to
look
at
um jeez
so I'm not even sick either this is
bizarre so we have some cool experiments
to look at here um from
yesterday I ran
this hyperparameter sweep on the
Moa and the metric optimized for was
total number of towers
taken so you can see it starts running
very small experiments right and then
over time it gradually runs longer and
longer experiments but isn't it weird
that these are like capping out like the
total number of towers taken is capping
out
because this is the total number of
towers taken over the whole course of
training they should be able to be like
linear and then better runs would give
you a steeper line maybe so I went and I
looked at the code and it looks like the
towers were not getting reset correctly
between games so you could really only
take the towers once it was a bug
right and this is what the sweep curve
looked like right we get all these hyper
prams and then here's the new one which
I just started this morning but it
already has some good runs on
it right here's Towers taken
and this is exactly what we expect right
we have straight lines with uh higher
slope being
better and we can look at a couple of
these right uh the rewards are different
the rewards aren't super meaningful on
their
[Music]
own there's a reward go up over
time hard to say
um but regardless we've got uh level
means you can see all these like these
waves are when it's resetting
games you've got the XP reward where you
can see it's like getting more XP over
games again it's like cyclical because
different games uh but you can see that
they're getting up to high levels right
so they're actually like fighting and
farming and doing all that stuff and
they're taking
Towers so
not even sick it's
ridiculous I start my days out with a
bunch of exercise and then I end up
taking too long of a shower and I just
get all like fogged up
okay so uh we can see that this sweep is
working out nicely right and we will
probably get some reasonable hyper prams
from this you can see we get reward
weights on the left here train batch
size is a million that's the 1 2 3 4
fifth
column BPT Horizon of one is very weird
you know you never know
though clip coefficient of 0.25 is
reasonable entry Co I of 6us 3 is very
reasonable Lambda of 97 and Gamma of 995
is pretty reasonable I don't know why it
would have the BPT Horizon be one though
and then we've got the learning rate is
70 minus
3 that is very very
high apparently it works though probably
because the mini batches are so
big uh Max gradient magnitudes like 045
that's reasonable 32k mini
batch total time steps 1.4 something
billion uh two update Epoch per data
sample is that
right
wait no one update Epoch I'm reading
that wrong good it should be one update
EPO that's what I would expect to be the
best uh and then what else do we
have value function clip very very low
value function clip is kind of weird and
a very low value function coefficient
so a couple weird parameters but mostly
what we would
expect and I think we can just let this
thing keep running for a bit this one's
pretty well Set uh I'm interested to see
where this one this one goes it should
just keep running longer and longer
things but I also want to see what the
trade-off is because it should allocate
some of the processing power to trying
to find steeper lines instead of just
running it for longer so this is a
pretty good test right cuz this is kind
of how RL works right is like it'll if
you have a good environment it'll keep
getting better over time regardless
right as for any reasonable set of hyper
prems but it'll be steeper for uh good
sets
so I think this is pretty nice
overall let's look at the pong
sweep cuz this one I need to look at and
see what
happened where is
it 15 19 okay this one has a whole bunch
of runs so what's going on
here oh wait it does
work why did I think it didn't work I
like when I refreshed it before it
looked
weird
um okay so this does work but it has a
very weird graph
shape and we' I'd like to figure out
what has happened with this like why it
looks this way this is going to give us
a very good uh some good insights on
carbs um and we're actually going to let
this one keep running because I want to
see if it can solve this any faster than
it's currently solving it
so that's so weird that you have like
this shift here
right what is this
speed what's like the range of speeds
that we
get so we get training speeds of
anywhere from 29,000 is all the way up
to
37,000 okay
episode
returns yeah we've
got these are very
good I need to figure out why it has
this shape
and remind me I don't want to tweet
anything for a bit I want the I want
kyung to get some some views on uh
episode return of over 20 is
sketchy that shouldn't be
possible could be some weird parameter
settings we'll have to go load up one of
the policies right
but what's like weird to me is that it
we have this
one
welcome we're looking at some carb
sweeps
AB uh we're looking at these carb
sweeps we got lots of data and lots of
good results from
yesterday we've got um not this one
where's the the good
one
sweeps this
one recently got puffer working on the
laptop nice if you had any trouble or
there were any bugs let me know I can
I'm always looking to fix
stuff why does this thing not load
we've got sweeps though for the mooba
and for pong and they look reasonable
but there's some quirks that I want to
diagnose and the goal is going to be to
uh you know to figure some stuff out
maybe make a couple experimental tweaks
here and there um but for the most part
this is going to be the routine for the
next few days is going to be know look
at and check on experiments a couple
times just had to download CPU version
for p torch yeah that makes sense
sweeps sweeps are automatically tuned
hyper parameter runs so like here oh
yeah this is what we want so right
here this is testing out different hyper
parameters for the MOBA that we have all
these different hyper parameters it's
it's automatically tuning and it is
finding better and better settings for
the training over
time and we can just see all the curves
so we can see that in this run this one
here which I think this is the best one
this one trained for
1.2 billion steps and on average each
environment uh it took like 59 Towers
over the course of that training
run so what you're looking for is the
steepest line
basically and then we get some insights
over what hyper parameters are good from
this as
well now
there's still some weird things with
this this Tech how long do you run
it uh you can run it for however long
you would like this one where is it not
this
one so this one has has been running for
five hours or so and it's
done I don't know a few billion steps
worth of experiments
probably uh and then we have this pong
one that's been running for like a
day where is it
yeah we have this pong one that's been
running for like a full day and this has
250 experiments worth of pong so we have
way way more data on it so it just
depends on how long it takes to get to
find good
parameters what I'm trying to figure out
right now is why we have this shape
right like it looks like oh look it's
getting better right over time and then
it kind of just stops it goes back down
and it takes a while to find the better
settings so I want to figure out why
that is that's the big Quirk at the
moment I'd
say um I wish there were like better
tools for
this so created Tim
stamp less than or what is this less
than equal
to is it possible to see it in action
playing
uh these ones not
yet this is for yeah this is for the Moa
and for pong I can show you the Moa in
one second real quick not these trained
models yet I have to do a little work
for that um
240 what the heck
31 what July
huh how's it giving me oh this is the
time
is
uh
1201 I don't
know something like that what can I do
now with puffer on my laptop here let me
show you
so where's our thing
yeah let's see if this
works check out
MOA um
let me try to get this running so you
can see
it and then I'll show you some stuff you
can do with puffer on your laptop that
should still be pretty fast
let's got to
compile it's just recompiling everything
since I switched
branches okay here we go so here's the
mooba we can run
around this is a support character it's
got a
hook we so we just hooked this character
to us oh no we're taking damage we've
got an AOE
heal so they can't really do much to us
there we've got this nice AOE heal I
should be able to AOE heal up my
teammates there we
go and what do I have I have a stun as
well so I don't know where can I show
off a
stun here we'll do like this guy here
he's going to chase me right
now he's not going to chase me he's
stunned and we'll do the AOE
heal and now we're going to
die
nope so there you go little
MOA so that's the current state of this
project uh as for what you can do if
you're on the dev Branch I would suggest
the snake environment the snake
environment is really
cool let me see where I have gifts for
that
let's see where we have
gifts should be on my
page they're probably pretty far down
now
but so the mobile runs decently
fast you can even play with that on your
laptop probably
you can definitely play with uh puffer
ocean
environments you can play with where is
it oh yeah this these grid environments
I've got this thing this is like a
forging en you can play with this one
for
sure when is the moom in GitHub it's
already there it's in the dev Branch all
my Works open
source we've got all these fun particle
ends looks like Falling Sand
these are in Ocean
grid not that
one uh we've got this little test and
then where's the really cool one the
snake
en come
on oh yeah here so this is like the
snake en
right so you can train snake very very
quickly this is a nice test environment
if you're not using GPU cuz you should
still get this running pretty darn
fast you can do small versions of it you
can do large versions of it you can get
like Mega Snake like this right so lots
of environments you can play
with there you
go mobo on GitHub under Dev all the
first party environments are puffer
environments
ocean back to
analysis back to analysis
okay so this
is these are all the early
runs
and huh
kind of hard to filter
this what if I just cut the top
portions so I just do greater than
15 how do I run them there's uh there
docks on puffer I get habo but as you
just saw
me demo. py and mooba mode eval and then
they're different render modes uh so
like render mode human is usually the
playable
one then you there's mode train for
training there's a VC option
multiprocessing I try to make it very
easy so if you just do like
DH you get all sorts of different
options
here has a nice help menu
okay so what on Earth happened
here because this is really weird
right we had an environment that was
like at 18.5 is it this one
here probably this one right if it's
eight
18.5 yeah this
one and
then did it find something dramatically
different is that what
happened with this
one where it's like right above it
59 very
weird so this
one and this
one I think I should make this 18 just
to make it easier to
see 18.5
okay so now maybe I can actually tell
what's going
on um you have these two purple
ones and these
are wait
1903 1020 okay so these are very far
apart terms of when that they were
created
right
and this one looked very promising very
early
on and then it took way longer to get
this
one eventually this
one this one's really the
best why did it take this long
what is the utilization of CPU and I
assume that's GPU when running an
environment CPU is going to be just
about maxed
um the
GPU it's going to depend on how much
data you're feeding
it GPU is usually not fully saturated
because um data transfer times and stuff
the way we do our vectorization though
when you do D- VC
multiprocessing um this sounds dumb but
it's not there is busy waiting the
workers are actually busy waiting for uh
more data so they're basically always
spinning the workers are very very uh
performance sensitive like you have tens
of micros seconds less than tens of
micros seconds uh in which to have any
overhead occur
okay so I see here that these are very
different sets of parameters
right so it looks like what happened
is there are like two different
distributions
maybe yeah
so
like hey Nathan
welcome we're debugging um hyper
parameter sweep Shenanigans
today actually if I just disable these
filters this will be really cool to look
at so I have this hyper pram sweep
algorithm and it works
amazingly but for some environments you
get this weird Behavior where like it
finds a good solution early on and then
it just falls off and then takes a
really long time to find better
Solutions like it eventually will find
them but it can take a long
time so I'm trying to figure out what's
causing
this I wonder if they replied to my
GitHub issue
too what do you think are the chances we
get a uh a one day
reply
a no
luck what is the max time that a view of
run puffer
lib like one
experiment I don't know maybe like a
week
if you mean samples though I've run like
a 100 billion samples in one
trial so that's
um that's probably close to
a 100
billion that's probably like how many
terabytes that's a lot of terabytes of
data I think that's like 50 terabytes of
data
that's a lot of samples right but when
you run a million samples per second you
can do that kind of
thing you kind of see the same thing
here don't you like look at this right
it's like it found some good
ones and then it stops for a bit and
then it goes back
up how do you store you don't store it
it's re enforcement learning right the
data is just in
memory why store data when you can
simulate fresh data
instantly if you wanted to run the
environment at like 20 million steps per
second you can what's the plans for
puffer lib uh I'm actually I'm working
on a video at the moment talking about
talking about like all the like where I
see all the stuff that puffer's done
fitting into fixing all the stuff that's
wrong with reinforcement learning I'm
going to be working on that on stream
later uh
today puffer is actually in a really
nice spot at the moment like
yeah puffer is actually in a very nice
spot at the moment like if we just have
these sweeps working well and we have
all these environments nice is making
multi-agent training fast the main
feature of puffer it's not just
multi-agent
we make single agent way faster as well
we have a
paper so it's mostly fancy observations
and actions though it's more than just
that um so here like net hack is single
agent we get net hack up to
96,000 steps per second simulated uh
gymnasium gets capped at like 7,000 even
in fully synchronous mode we get 18,000
we get 55,000 compared to 11,000 on mini
hack um with
Pokemon Pokemon we get 7.2 th000
compared to 5,000 for these more
traditional M it's like it's going to be
a smaller Gap but still like 30 to
50% uh for really fast environments we
get like
Millions other ones get capped to around
100k with Atari we're up to 25k
gymnasium is at like 4.8 or whatever and
actually as of the other day I now have
I now have Atari running at 40,000 plus
I think 60,000
even uh crafter fast mini grid 200,000
you get the idea so we just make
everything fast we just make everything
fast we also make it broadly compatible
you know it's really hard to use
environments like net hack and such uh
without puffer our emulation wrapper is
very nice and we also work now on high
performance simulation so we can have
better environments for RL in the first
place next use case or game that puffer
will work
on we have a lot of stuff at the moment
that just needs to be polished up and
shipped is a 1.1 like the Snake Game the
Moa the grid EnV there's like one other
two others actually I'm working on as
well so we need to have like a nice big
simulation update and uh we need to have
the hyper pram sweep stuff working
nicely and that pretty much puts RL in a
spot where you have Ultra fast
environments and automated tuning to run
whatever you want and that puts RL in a
very very good spot for research uh
we'll probably come up with some more
simulators after that and uh we'll start
like you know branching out to other
problems like control Robotics and
whatnot if I Implement my environments
how can I make it work faster with
puffer Li should I vectorize the M
update themselves I have a great example
for you it's in the dev Branch at the
moment
this is I'll point you to the snake
environment I wrote it's a very nice
simple case uh the techniques apply to
more complex stuff like the MOBA IOD as
well it's all the
same so here we have uh 229 lines of
cython plus 216 lines of python this
implements essentially slyther IO 4096
agent snake or you can simulate 4096
environments of classic snake or
anything in between and the snake
simulation runs at 10 million plus steps
per
second so you get tons of data and the
training runs at a million per second so
if you're looking for like a way to get
the most out of puffer and how to you
like write your own Sims to be ultra
fast this is where you look this is the
simple example and if you want something
that's a lot more complicated uh just to
see that this Tech scales we've got the
Moa I'm working on the project that I've
been showing off which is like 1300
lines right and it's all the
same is that what is that 1 million
steps with one CPU GPU simulation is 10
million steps or so per CPU core so
that's single thread performance you can
get much higher with puffer's VEC uh one
GPU yes for training what we do is we'll
use two cores because we buffer the data
back and forth so you know while you're
running in on the data from one core
right the other core is prepping data
for you for the next step so we use two
so that you don't have any hitching uh
you're never waiting on data
essentially but yeah two CPU cores one
GPU it's a good GPU it's a 4090 but it
ain't no
800 you know it's a consumer
desktop this is where going with puffer
we're making all of RL easy simple
automated hyperparameter tuning and
stupidly High perf this is what we're
doing
welcome how do I get the data from
puffer what do you mean get the data
from puffer you run the data is
simulations right you run the
Sims do are you mean the API I don't
really know if I get the
question but yeah I I really want to set
us a new Benchmark where like
reinforcement learning on whatever we
want is going to train at minimum
hundreds of thousands of steps per
second optimized a million steps per
second um and all the Sims just run at
millions of steps per second and you can
do this at home on a single desktop and
you have automated hyperparameter
tunings you can run experiments
overnight come back have optimal
parameters you know you're going to do
research you want to come up with a new
algorithmic modification you make your
change and then you run a full hyper
pram sweep overnight so you have
comprehensive results instead of the
thing now which is like manually tuning
hyper parameters over 3
months what can I do with the data I
didn't phrase my question
properly with the data from the
environments well we used it to train
the reinforcement learning algorithm
right the agent plays the
game by playing the game the agent gets
better at playing the game goes back and
forth in a loop
and specifically with these environments
they're really good for tuning your
algorithms right let's say you're doing
work and you want to know whether your
RL algorithm is any good or your
implementation is any good or you have
ideas on how to improve it better this
gives you a really really fast way to do
all of
that so that's the importance of speed
right it's not so much you're going to
take your uh your model that's trained
on snake and you're going to go solve
cancer with it it's more like
you have this uh model that you're that
you want to go do something else with
but whatever problem you actually have
to train on is really slow so here you
have a whole Suite of environments that
are Ultra fast that you can test on and
then you can transfer the results over
how do we do the hyper pram sweep it's
in the demo file it's in Dev for now um
actually the carbs is in the uh Dev the
dev Branch the other ones are not but we
have this carb sweep this is from MB AI
it's my integration with uh their
implementation and I got it working with
wand B so this is a fancy basian
algorithm that's better than the
built-in Base by a huge margin I have an
article on X if you're interested in the
details of that let me find it uh let me
find the
article we have this article on
X it's really
nice and you can just run that and
you'll get curves like this
right do you think puffer is good enough
for someone who's new to RL in terms of
abstraction because I remember having
Implement Q learning in the environment
from scratch due to no resources yes um
the primary purpose of puffer is not for
beginners it's to push The Cutting Edge
of research but the way that I do that
is by making everything simple so yes it
has the side effect of being very good
for beginners as
well um that's the nice thing about it
if you're familiar with clean RL uh
clean RL is what I generally recommend
even to beginners over say stable
baselines 3 because precisely because it
does not have a bunch of abstraction and
it's very short right you can have a
huge stack of things that you don't
quite understand how work together or
you can have just 300 lines of code that
does everything the 300 lines of code is
going to be easier to deal with puffer
follows the same philosophy there uh
puffer is not primarily a
implementations framework so you know we
don't do all of all the implementations
we do give you po out of the box that's
very highly optimized and it's one file
so it's very easy to read and follow so
that's where I'd suggest if you're new
I'd suggest grabing uh grabing puffer
looking at our clean RL code or clean RL
p uh derivative code and uh you know
running it on some environments very
very fast is WB free yeah you can get a
free account on WB there's also a paid
option the paid option gives you extra
storage and
stuff but you can get all this
everything you're seeing right here you
can get this all free in fact I just
subscribed uh yesterday I just started
paying them a little bit yesterday
because it's a good product and I could
use some
storage and puffer is absolutely
free if you want to help out the project
the best way you can help me out is to
just start the reposit
helps me out a whole whole
ton yeah I'll share the uh I'll share
this actually let me just link the
whole so this is puffer on GitHub this
has the uh puffer lib but there's also
puffer tank and this has my uh my envm
config it's very simple you'll be very
disappointed it just has SEI and super
Maven and a color scheme that's all
that's in here but you can get it in
puffer tank
do you get storage with the free wanb
yeah you get uh 100 gigs for
free is clean RL on dev or 1.0 it's on
both there's clean puff RL which is like
puffer Libs version of clean rl's
po um it's on both like the dev branch
is a bit less stable I'm hacking on it
constantly but it has like our new sweep
stuff and it has a bunch of the new
simulations so if you're resource
constrained right if you want like the
snake envin stuff that's all on dev the
m is on dev all that stuff is on dev and
I do Break Stuff in Dev quite a bit it's
not guaranteed
stable if something breaks you just come
chat with me on stream or message in
Discord right and I fix
it the W be free without it yeah there's
no trial it's just free you can just use
it
it's not a free trial you can just use
it pretty darn sure at least right I
don't think you need a edu either I
think it's just
free are you more productive on
Vim I mean minor like slightly
I'm generally just slightly less annoyed
by like you know having to attach vs
code to
stuff you can use whatever you
want I would definitely advise against
being the meme of configuring neovim all
day like you don't need to spend all day
configuring the thing it's like I have
two
plugins how do I link it to
puffer uh you don't have to link
anything to puffer it's just in the demo
file there's like a wandb entity WB
project all you got to do is you put in
your like your project name uh you know
your your username and then when you you
don't have to put your password in the
file what'll happen is when you run it
with like D- track or whatever then it
will uh the WB API will prompt you for
your credentials and you'll authenticate
through
there that's how puffer works
thank you to whoever just
started helps me out a whole
ton the growth on this project has been
amazing right here this is where I
started working on puffer full-time
after I graduated and we've gone you
know above 700 just in the last couple
of months which is awesome really really
helps me to have uh this level of growth
on
stuff what are you working on today
exactly at the moment I'm kind of
chatting but uh what I would like to do
is I have a couple of sweeps that I'm
looking
at and where is it so I have a couple of
these sweeps that I'm looking at and
there's this weird thing I've noticed
where carbs tends to like very quickly
produce pretty good results and then it
drops off for a while and then it
produces good results more slowly over
time so I'd like to understand what's
happening here and how I can you know
make this happen
faster did you
improve the DM lab FPS or other camera
rendering en I improved Atari a whole
ton I have Atari right now if you want
to see this pong
sweep this is I'm actually pretty proud
of this um
so this is pong I have this training
between 30 and 40,000 steps per second
on pong which is
like five times faster than is normal at
the very
least all the training you're doing now
is here let me get this so I can
actually read the chat because I have
like too much stuff behind the chat
there we go all this is
mapo it depends what you mean by mapo
it's uh it is po applied independently
to each agent sharing a single set of
Weights so I don't know if that's ippo
or whatever it's just p
the ma stuff like people got a whole
bunch of the names
confused only found you recently in June
due to the Pokemon red video found the
Discord found puffer and started
watching your
streams wish I found it earlier you
didn't miss much I haven't been doing
this for very long I just
graduated I mean I just graduated this
past spring so now uh you know I've
defended the PHD and free from the
shackles of Academia I am fixing
reinforcement learning I'm fixing all of
the things that have bothered me about
reinforcement learning that I have not
been able to do because it doesn't make
sense to do an
Academia that's and it's happening very
very quickly like the progress in the
last couple of months like as soon as
these Sims are fully polished and live I
think people are going to see that
reinforcement learning is a different
field it's just a completely different
ball game with the speed that we have
access to
now full-time streamer life no this
isn't full full-time streamer this is
full-time Dev um this is not content
creation the streaming is just nice
because like I'm working on an open
source project and this is a fun way to
like chat with users and chat with
people that are interested in this stuff
and it actually ends up keeping me more
focused because yeah I spend time
chatting like this but uh I generally
have a very hard time focusing uh most
of the time when I'm just working on my
own so the time that I spend chatting is
just the time that I would spend zoning
out while working normally so yeah this
is just a better way to do that how was
your PhD good it's five years I'm glad
I'm done loved your thesis defense thank
you I'm actually I'll show you a little
sneak peek of what I've been working on
lately this is new this is going to be
the second long form talk on the channel
um I really just want to kind of go
through my whole thoughts it's going to
be very opinionated it's not going to be
as academic but uh I really want to go
through everything that is causing
reinforcement learning to not be a
widely used Tech and how I'm fixing it
with Puffer that is going to be the talk
so I'll be deving this on I'll be like
working on this on stream in a little
bit after I'm done chatting here and
after
uh after I figure this
out this weird sweep
I wish there were like a better way
to I'm trying to think how I can track
this over
time loved it too thank
you it was kind of crazy how uh how much
that video blew up like it's I got to
say it's really nice to have something
like that catch on and gain recognition
because the type of stuff I work on it's
not a fun thing to work on in Academia
like you're really really fighting
Upstream um with this type of work
because it's more heavily engineering
it's more heavily like infrastructure
and stuff and that is not the type of
thing that gets people excited in
Academia how much RAM do you have
I also started writing articles because
they let me like give really good
answers to all the repeat questions I
get this is on the
website this is the puffer
cluster we've got 8490 is one per box uh
we've got 24 cores per box and 128 gigs
of RAM per box all the specs are
here puffer cluster
if you're interested in um written form
content I have I post the best articles
of mine to the uh the puffer uh blog
like puffer I github.io and then I post
like some random stuff as well as X
articles
so you know I've got this one this is
the same article just mirrored to X this
is a fun article we got hyper Prem
tuning so I've got four of these so
far about the 10 mil steps per second
you mentioned can you clarify how it
scales with number of CPUs gpus and if
that's Sim or M steps Sim steps are M
steps I'm not sure what that means uh
that is single threaded so that scales
linearly with the number of CPUs that
you have except that in order to
actually make use of that data you have
to have a really good vectorization
implementation puffer lib has the best
vectorization implementation in
existence I have not actually profiled
how fast it can be at the high end
because at the moment it's like it's
ludicrously fast to the point that it
doesn't matter um when you train snake
with one GPU and two CPU cores you have
0% time spent on the environment you're
never waiting for data you have 100% of
the time is spent on either data
transfer between GPU and CPU or on
running the GP
that's
it you know I bet I know what's wrong
with this simulating versus training 1
mil train throughput 10 mil per core
simulation
throughput so that means your GPU
bound S one GPU oh I I think you asked
about GPU scaling I have not done
multi-gpu configurations yet because uh
most people are training on like single
node boxes in RL at smaller scale uh
that is something we will be doing in
the future but the like my thinking was
RL is so cursed that nobody can even get
it working efficiently on one GPU like a
one node setup so you know we're going
to wait until uh until that is solid
solid before I invest in bigger Hardware
that stuff's expensive as well
like I'm going to have to get some more
serious
funds if I want to scale to that like
anytime you're buying Hardware that's
not desktops you either build it
yourself or you pay a huge markup so I
will see whether I want to be building
stuff myself or the alternative is you
just run more experiments right you just
buy more single note uh single GPU boxes
and then you run more experiments on
them which is what I did with the puffer
cluster
boxes are only about 4,000 a
piece planning on getting the 5,000
series
gpus not
initially not initially the hardware has
a you know lifespan expected of two to
three years and then after that we
upgrade not super clear in how this
works so each pair of CPUs collects 10
million steps per second and the GPU
does the training so you're capped by
GPU through through yes exactly
exactly now it doesn't simulate 10
million steps per second right if the
GPU doesn't keep up it simulates if you
just run the simulation the simulation
goes 10 million steps per second right
but the way it works with the GPU is
that you have the environments on each
core right two cores they simulate a
batch of steps you have 4096 agents each
usually or 8,000 agents each so you have
like
4096 steps of data on one CPU 4096 on
the other hey Will is the agent good yet
yeah I've got some cool stuff to show
you one second so you have 4096 agents
on one CPU core 4096 on the other CPU
core uh the gpus takes the data from the
first core right and then the GPU takes
the data from the second core and while
the GPU is taking data from the second
core the first core is already run the
step so that by the time the GPU is
ready for data from the first core again
that's already done so it is
asynchronous sampling uh if you want the
technicals of that it is still on policy
learning
it doesn't cause any other issues this
is a technique that's taken from En pool
and Sample Factory if you want
references so will we've got really cool
stuff Happening
Here uh we
have we've got tuning
working this is the total number of
towers taken over the whole course of
training so we're looking for steeper
and steeper curves they are taking
towers and winning games this is a sweep
that I started running this morning
we're getting optimal hyper parameters
here and uh to test carbs I also have a
sweep running on pong it's a little
weird I'm trying to figure out why it
has this shape this distribution shape
but uh it looks like we're going to be
able to have this thing find a set of
hyper parameters that solves pong in
like less than five minutes on one GPU
so that's
nice we doubled the th the train through
put of Atari the other day as well
my current guess with this is that this
is like one distribution of parameters
or something it found like a
distribution of parameters and
then probably this found a distribution
of parameters and then it needed to find
a different one to get it to get any
better something like that
right also why is this cut
off any visualization of the current
best
policy uh not yet I do have the
game wait the game is much nicer to play
now though I made it feel a lot better
it's hard to show because it's more like
how the game feels where's this thing
which
terminal this
one okay so here we have the
game you follow around with the cursor
you have qw and E uh Q is a hook we're
going to hook a puffer we just hooked a
puffer over uh we're getting hit so
we're going to use a a AOE heal on
ourselves to heal back up we also have a
stun we can like say hey puffer come
follow me and then we can say nope
you're getting stunned and leave him
there there you go I want to see those
agents take Towers you'll see them soon
we're very much experiment bound at the
moment so uh the idea is going to be on
stream these days I'm going to chat a
little bit with people I'm going to go
through experiments I'm going to see if
I can make tweaks to carbs and then I've
got a uh another talk that I'm working
on a a a video or a talk um I'm doing
that just on stream because why
not new to your channel and work can you
explain to me the relationship between
MOA DotA
League the relationship with MOA I
recognize the mini map map design creeps
Heroes yeah so this is the idea of this
project actually here it'll be easier if
I showed the high LEL view of
this let me show
you so this is it at a high level right
looks like a MOA at a high level um it's
the idea is that it's going to be mini
DOTA it's not going to be one to one
it's simplified enough that I can
implement this as a single person
relatively quickly but hopefully you can
still get some of the same highle
pushing strategies right split push um
you know same some of the same high
level strategies uh I didn't replicate
everything exactly I did replicate the
tower locations the spawn positions uh
neutral spawn positions and some of the
stats I have not added [__] trees yet
will because that takes you know and
code and there other things that need to
be done
first um but yeah I read some stuff from
the game client and then I just came up
with
others you realize that in order to add
trees I have to do a really obnoxious
pre-computed vision mask
right like I need to do a really
obnoxious like connected component scan
in order to do that yep towers are the
yellow
dots fine I'll make a PR is this still
any config it's in the dev Branch now
you can go ahead and try to make a PR
but
uh you realize you have to pre-compute
it right you have to pre-compute the
connect you have to read the the data
the tree data from uh this other
repository you have so you have to go
like read tree data which isn't that
hard but then from there so you you
cannot do that if you want I'll read the
actual tree data if you want but then
you need to do like connect components
on the trees or something like that and
you need to pre-compute that cuz there's
no way in hell you're doing that at
runtime that's way too
slow rendering trees and all got to be
we don't really care about rendering
cost we don't render during
training so during training what they
get is they get local state so they get
the data that would go into the renderer
to reduce
that yeah well the target is a million
steps per second single thread so yeah
stuff's got to be
fast you can totally get that with a
mask but you have to be clever about
it had to look at the code and I'm
impressed thank you this is a new
project right this is only this is week
three of doing anything with this MOBA
this didn't exist two and a half weeks
ago
we should do a chat bet to see what the
odds are that will comes up with a
decent PR for a relatively complex
feature on this crazy
project what's the issue with carbs I
didn't get
it you see the shape of this it doesn't
just go up over time right it goes up
over time and then it crashes down and
then it goes back up over time kind of
weird right
okay gotta go see you later keep up the
good work thank
you created time
stamp what if we
do we do up time
so this is the Paro
front what is that distribution though
this well they're going to
be the up times are going to be very
similar for a lot of different
configurations right like if you double
the batch size that'll be roughly this
it'll take roughly the same amount of
time for everything that has like the
same batch size or whatever they're not
that many hyper parameters that
influence
runtime no the other one that should
what's the sudden dip with carbs yeah
that's the
question are the mob agents lstms yep a
little CNN plus
lstm CNN over local state not
pixels all the code's public it's all on
dev the Mobis sour is only 1300 lines
kind of interesting Paro
front what's the local state for the
agent uh it is a let me show
you you can add a channel to this if you
need to for like Vision or something I
don't I don't think you'll need to but
you if you need to you'll be able to I
think that you'll just be able to do it
um you'll just be able to like compute
hold
on surprised you do CNN over local state
why wouldn't I it's
2D I cleaned this up quite a little uh
quite a bit so it's pretty good now
there's also a branch that's called
mooba that has some new stuff in it but
I don't have models training on that yet
it's pretty close to this
anyways if I knew what local state was
so here it is right
so you get the first channel of the
observation is the grid the grid
data has a set of
indices for all the different types so
you have 16 different CH uh 16 different
types of indices
here these are going to get one hotted
in the actual
architecture and
then these are extra OBS so this is a
flat observation for just the hero
character so you get like the CNN map
plus you get an extra OB for a linear
layer this is all in there and then
there are some additional channels to
the com map that include the health of
nearby the percentage health of nearby
agents percentage Mana of nearby agents
and the level of nearby
agents
spatial there you go it's a pretty small
Network it's like 150,000 160,000
parameters same network I use for snake
and everything else it's a very nice
it's a very nice compact design has an
lstm
will is about to either submit the most
cracked PR I've ever seen or like
complete cursor slop and I have no idea
which
one this could be the thing that sells
me on
cursor we'll
see I'm just messing with you
well what is the logic of the pi versus
pix
files cython lets you run all this in
Native
so the whole the whole simulation of the
Moa is uh it runs in Native C without
calling back to python this makes it
between 20 and 100 times faster than a
native python version would
be is there terrain masking or do all
the agents know the location of enemies
all the time they only see stuff that's
nearby they only see a nearby crop
there's no vision masking at the moment
as you can see behind walls um
but
yeah oh yeah technically will if you
wanted to uh instead of doing connected
components you could literally compute
Vision a vision mask for every single
tile on the map right you could just
compute a vision map for every single
tile on the for every tile on the map
that wouldn't be that much
data you can look at the um
uh the pathing pre-computation I did
that's way more data than this would
be
cursor hey be right
back does Dev Branch support continuous
actions yes yes it
does it's a relatively new addition so
you'll have to tell me how it works but
we do have a test end for it we have
this nice set of grid environments that
have reasonably complicated tasks in
them that can be run either discrete or
continuous so you know you can actually
figure out from there whether it works
discreet and not continuous or for
whether you know your algorithm is bad
or whatever and you can run sweeps we
have somebody actually working on
testing that stuff now but it's in
there
pong will Fam I'm rooting for you
thanks for Moa you're discretizing the
action
space at the moment we
are I don't know whether I will F like
ultimately I might make the uh I might
make the movement continuous and the
rest of it the button press is obviously
discreet it could go either way right
okay this is not telling me anything let
me real quick
here if I put this filter back on
right not this one
this looks to me like there are
different distributions
right the basic idea for the tree thing
to create like a binary mask for the
grid to know if each grid point is a
tree or not um more than that would be
to have a binary mask so from every
position on the map you have something
to tell whether you can see uh like if
there's an obstacle in the way right
you'd have to like compute the VIS
vision mask so you pre-compute all the
masks so if you're in the trees you know
you can see out of the trees but things
can't see you in the Tre is that type of
a thing
you know it occurs to me that the thing
that this could
be is just
um what
what 18.95 so this it's this one here
right what are the hyper prams for
this repeat action
prob over here okay
BPT
Horizon
8 clip coefficient up here that
shouldn't
matter relatively High entropy
maybe not that
high
je relatively High
gamma relatively
High very low learning
rate mini batch
size
High two update
Epoch and then in order to get this
thing to work really
well we lower the repeat
probs the batch
size it's like a very different set of
hyper
prams that's very sketchy
so I guess what this says is that
um if there is a
distribution if there's like a better
distribution of hyper prams carbs will
probably eventually find it but it'll
take a
while I'm pretty sure this is what
happens is that it's just like multiple
distributions can I see it over time if
I like take this filter
off if I just make this graph really big
you have all these runs up
here and then you have these runs which
look like they have better outcomes down
here what if I just filter the really
bad runs
I filter out the really bad
ones
like now can I see I'm just trying to
see if I can see like a distribution
shift occur
so many of these right here with this
value function
coefficient we've got like these ones
that use a lot of compute that all do
well
is there any parameter that I expect to
be very
sensitive the
entropy or is it this repeat action
prob no I have good runs at like lots of
different
probs learning rate
got a lot of good runs at lower learning
rates don't
you runtime is the most important
parameter
value function clip coefficient is
important that's
weird I wouldn't expect
that and the other ones are not that
important is
weird of course this is over the
filtered runs what about over all the
runs
over all the runs we get a nicer
spread mini batch size being more
recognized but then among any of the
reasonable runs
h
can I see
let's go back to this viz over
here oh these are all longer runs aren't
they
so these bottom
two
oh well that make
sense hold
on these are all longer runs
and these are all shorter
runs so
what was happening
here it was
plateauing why would it be
plateauing that's really weird for it to
Plateau like just shy
right okay so the carbs is not stupid
there's something genuinely weird
happening here right because it was
making these runs before very early on
that we doing very well but we're kind
of ping out at the
end is
it 0.08 repeat action prob
08 repeat action
prob how about the other ones does it go
down come on
so stupid
where my sweep go okay
here
um wait
what this is not true
right episode return vers
created oh no I don't know what happened
here something weird
happened
pong I think we're making some progress
I have some ideas now
so these
runs have a repeat
prob up here
the best run has a lower repeat prob but
this
one that seems like it is
possible to do better you just have to
train for a long
time what is this one why is this
freaking broken right here I want this
to be working so I can click
things okay this one I want to
click this one
here okay so this is 19.5 or whatever
over here and then you just keep running
it and it gets to 20 right
19.8 where is this
one
18.6 this one's here right
doesn't train very long at
all
H the curves look like
these all look like they work
right it's hard to say with this green
one no it looks like it's working
it really does just seem like it takes a
while for it to discover like a
different distribution I guess
it's very
weird let me check a couple
things they're
BO mode
difficulty frame
skip
Mado it's this paper right
I remember this
paper diverse the evaluation methods
have become with
time e
I'm looking for where they do sticky
[Music]
actions bunch of garbage
math for
this is
funny so this is not what
the majority of rappers do
I think this is
garbage this is terrible advice here
old training episodes on a fixed number
of frames taking the number of skipped
frames into
consideration when measuring training
data
we Advocate taking the number of skipped
frames that's
weird summarizing learning
performance okay this is it right
no the original Atari had no source of
entropy it's fully R
deterministic it's possible to achieve
high scores by learning an open loop
policy simply memorizing a good action
sequence various approaches been
developed to add to
this recommendation is to use sticky
actions which we discussed in section
five okay that's what we want
you don't need any of
this okay this is what we want this is
the thing that need makes a difference
that we need to read so that we have
this
right for
right so this is what I'm using
where do they give the details of
this is there an
appendix okay this
is
here for
okay so here we actually have their
evaluation of sticky actions this is
what we need in order to tell if we
should be know how we should be treating
that parameter
okay so essentially what they're arguing
is they're arguing that this thing only
impacts dumb algorithm so we should use
it um but is that actually
true what
wait we can see that the brood is the
only algorithm substantially impacted by
sticky
actions table two
depicts we repeated the
experiments
5.1.1
okay but
with action sticky action
0.25 we can see that the brood is the
only algorithm substantially
impacted by sticky
actions what is this
parenthesis standard
deviation
okay
so this crashes it completely yeah as
you'd
expect dqn is not
impacted it's up impacted a little bit
I really don't like this
method initial
noops random human
starts uniformly random action
noise May interfere
yes random frame
skips agent has perfect Reaction
Time restricts agents to using frame
skip does not interfere with action
selection discounting must also be
treated more carefully
asynchronous
environment La rep
okay new Benchmark results using sticky
actions
um it's really
obnoxious the way this is introduced
a model
learning it's fine
[Music]
exploration modes and
difficulties a default game mode and
level that could be changed
any
appendices they use the full action set
18 actions
the question is do I trust their results
they don't have this ablation right with
and without their sticky actions do
they okay so we got to go back to this
table and make a decision based on this
the problem is that but I do not believe
these results here or at least I don't
believe that these will be apply across
the board
quite substantially affects
asteris there's an effect on beam Rider
an
effect does better on sequ and Space
Invaders which is
weird I would think that this would be
game dependent though
right maybe I should look at
this in here
so here's the
repeat let me
see so across all of these
trials negative correlation
oh well this is
interesting do I have no good results at
0.25 I should be able to plot that
right repeat
no good results
above
.12 it's pretty conclusive
do I have the sweep from
before so the thing I'm worried about
here basically is
like you have to
win you have to win like 20 rounds of
pong right to solve this environment
and what this sticky action thing does
especially with frame
skip is sometimes it just ignores what
you want to do and like holds down the
key so I don't think I could win pong
with that
right 25% of the time you just don't get
to do what you want to do and
then 16 you know
what's the Atari frame
rate I don't know what the
AL 60fps
60 frames per second
and frame
skip so with frame skip
4 you're running at 15 FPS right
how bad is it to lose a frame on a 15fps
game well let me think about here's
another way let's think about games
where this changes your
strategy it's like all of them isn't it
you're not allowed to catch the ball on
the edge of the paddle or actually you
want to catch it on the Leading Edge of
the paddle so if you accidentally frame
skip you don't go
past or you want to get the paddle into
place and then you want to like
pass what does gymnasium asb3 do for
this
it's like researchers inventing problems
for themselves holy
hell
so Max and Skip
en where's this Frame
skip yeah this is frame skip four Max
and
Skip episodic life clip reward
there's no sticky action here is
there yeah no they're doing the noop
resets maybe Costa has
results for
what's this guy's name
Mado is my
paper Machado
yeah
for
e what's he running in his latest
stuff there's no makato in here
right this yeah this still has
be3 well that's obnoxious
because I have have to use it now don't
I they set this stupid parameter way too
high
I hate when I'm faced with these types
of choices where it's like
in my mind the right thing to do is to
ignore this stupid
thing or if you're going to use it you
set it to something very low
like you're sabotaging your ability to
play the game
he actually he did
report let me see what he reported I'll
decide based on this
let me look at some
scores where's
pong you got to be kidding me
what's this dagger
here what's the
dagger the games originally used as
training games by each
method okay so now I have a way to do
this D q n
Paper
20 okay so I actually I have something
on them
now I have something on them
them I think I found yet another [__]
crazy broken thing with
RL this if this is if I'm right this is
nuts and this is so
stupid it's like a best practices paper
introducing worst practices
let me
see
so wait this is sarsa okay wait maybe
we're
okay
dqn across 60
games how many
frames they have better
tables they don't have better tables
[__]
so this is all we have to go off
of what environments did they use up
top beam
Rider they do have beam Rider
okay so they say that
their their implementation
outperforms the original
here
right did they use 200 million frames
10 million
frames where do they say how long they
train
EPO mini batch weight
updates do I actually have to compute
this
is it this
obnoxious how many frames did they train
for
32 okay so I can compute this then right
32 mini batch
size 100
EPO
50,000 160 million
frames
okay 160 million
frames which if they use Fram skip 5
should match pretty much perfect
perfectly so I'm going to take these two
papers as comparable
directly we might just be about to find
it like yet another crazy coloss like
catastrophic RL [__]
up it seems very likely at this
point wait didn't they do cqu in the
original
paper they did do
cqu and they get
17 05
five oh and Space
Invaders so their implementation gets
97 with
dqn the
original gets
1705 they get four. 76
on beam
Rider so they outperform
here there's no
freeway sequest yet and then Space
Invaders they report that they do better
so I'm going to say that they have a
comparable
implementation they have a comparable
implementation to the original here
and then they
report they report
that beam Rider does not degrade
substantially sequest does
better and Space Invaders does
better under this
scheme Aster notably does
worse
but we have to look at the other
algorithms the other ones they didn't
report wait what is
this results on Al's original training
set using dqm
what's
this DQ has much higher
variability yeah but this is fine we
don't care about
that so now what we do is we go down to
the bottom here
where they have their full result and we
compare their full results to the
original dqn
environments and we see whether they hit
any skeletons in the
closet so they have Sara here it's
technically it's s
it's I think it's a different sarsa
though I think we mostly care about dqn
don't
we Pawn gets to
14.5 they say sarsa gets
to they say their sarsa doesn't
work
okay the original sarsa they say doesn't
work but this is a different
sarsa so do we even bother comparing
this beam
Rider
2.2 yeah okay so these are completely
different then so we don't compare
sarsa we just compared dqn we don't have
a ton of data here but maybe we have
enough to find uh skeletons in the
closet
right so beam Rider gets up to 5.7 so
they say that this is very
good really we should look somewhere
between these
two because it's they used 160 in the
original paper
so yeah they do a bit better than the
original paper it looks like Fair a bit
better okay and then
breakout breakout I guess they say is
unstable because they get to 75 and it
crashes breakout gets 168 in
dqn does
better so they did skeletons in the
closet here they totally failed on one
of the original
ends let's see if they have failed on
other
ones let's see if they just Cherry
Picked
Enduro they get up to
688 okay to their credit here they don't
appear to be cherry picking on this one
they team they appear to get good
performance we' probably take somewhere
like like 650 is somewhere around
here
pong pong is known for being like the
most consistent task they do not solve
pong with their method right am I on the
right column yeah they do not solve pong
with their
method dqn solves pong and it solves
pong
consistently that's a big skeleton in
the closet Q
starbert
9.8 the K they say they do very well on
qar BT whatever there going to be some
implementation details this one's a very
sensitive
en
cqu I think they reported this one as
well
1.4 okay and then Space
Invaders
800 okay so the two that are just very
suspicious
this paper doesn't work on breakout and
pong
right this paper just does not work on
breakout and
pong so why am I going to
trust and breakout and pong are like
very long Episode games as well right
where like you can missing an action at
any time can screw you over
so why am I going to use a best practice
from a
paper where they don't compare you know
they like they happen not to compare on
these two of the original 7
M's how many they do they compare
on on the originals
two they compare on three out of the
seven n
and on two of the ones that they
don't which happen to be like the two
widest known
ones it completely diverges
what was the best result that I
got this is another
question what was the best result that I
got for pong here
if I go like this
right and I set this
to repeat action
prob not that many experiments
but didn't I have an earlier sweep as
well
I think I had an earlier sweep that I
can look
to me see if I can find
it
sweeps uh two weeks
ago this
pong Z
MOA didn't I have a different sweep
on
pong maybe it's maybe it's still a carb
sweep run count and compute
time is it this
one
yeah so this this is before I
fixed the repeat action
prob do I have enough evidence to make a
thread on this or no
or should I
run I want to spend a whole day on
another run of
this I mean it really would be nice for
the conclusive
right I think that I should not make a
thread of this right now
the responsible thing to do is going to
be to run one more set to
confirm but to folks watching let me let
me explain what I just found and why
it's like potentially a huge deal to
reinforcement
learning every so of every so often
somebody like makes a big stink over uh
evaluation methods in RL and like
whether we're doing good science which
is fair because we're usually not doing
good science right and then they'll
introduce like a new guideline or
something or a new practice on how to do
good evaluation and reinforcement
learning so this is the one of the best
known papers in this
area it's the Mado paper Machado paper
whatever and one of the big
recommendations that they make is
that where is
it uh sticky
actions the heck is sticky actions
right here sticky actions are very
simple 25% of the time when your agent
makes an
action it instead repeats the previous
action so it's like you know you're
pressing buttons on your keyboard and
then 25% of the time the last one's
still stuck
down and they say that in their
paper this does not create a substantial
performance difference if you're using
any reasonable
algorithm so if you're training dqn
doesn't make a big performance
difference sarsa doesn't make a big
performance difference only affects
Brute Force algorithms that are
attempting to exploit determin exploit
the lack of stochasticity in
Atari so they introduced this new
thing and a lot of people have used this
it has like 600 some odd
citations but if you think about it
wouldn't it seem like in a lot of games
if your buttons are sticky that's going
to make it really hard to play the game
no matter how good you
are would seem like it
right and I've noticed that with this
new rapper it's been kind of hard to
train pong and actually if I go into my
sweep data here I can actually see that
there's a negative correlation between
this probability cuz I swept over it
this probability and how well you do it
pong let me prove that to
you real quick I'll prove that to
you okay so here are all of my
runs here are all of my
runs here's the Environ the uh action
repeat probability negative correlation
with performance and the much more
striking example is that if I simply
make this
axis repeat action
probability you can see that above a
repeat action probability of
0.13 this stuff does not work anymore
right you don't get high scores above a
repeat action probability of
0.13 which what I would assume would
mean that when you have a repeat action
probability a heck of like A2 five and
this can accumulate by the way like 1 in
16 frames you're going to be stuck for
three whole frames on the same
action I would assume that in a game as
long as pong where you have to win 20
rounds in order to have solved the
environment you know that's going to
cause a problem so what I
did is I went through the original paper
I have sideb sided both of these papers
where is it I sideb sided the dqn paper
this is the best known paper and
reinforcement learning with the makado
paper which is one of the best also one
of the not anywhere widely as near but
one a very influential paper and I
looked at their evaluations right and
cquest and Space Invaders were both used
in the dqn paper and if I look at their
implementation and I look at this uh the
results here it looks like their dqn
implementation is about on par with the
original
okay but when I scroll down to the the
appendix we get the skeletons in the
closet they have their full dqn results
and included in here are two of the best
known and most consistent environments
in all of reinforcement learning we've
got breakout which their dqn
implementation completely fails
on they only get a score of
168 in the original
paper Pawn even more consistent of a
task you can solve this thing in like
two million steps with good hyper
parameters they get a highest score of
15 the original paper from years before
gets 20 consistently with
dqn apparently there's like a 21st point
or something something's weird with that
but you know 20
consistently so what I think has
happened is that they've made this
suggestion completely screwing over like
really long games where eventually
you're going to get screwed over by that
like that one
action and nobody's bothered to call it
like call this right nobody's bothered
to call the paper on
this
so what I'm going to
do is I was thinking about making a big
threat about this right
now but I'm going to wait I'm going to
be responsible and I'm going to
wait and what I'm going to do is I'm
going to let this sweep this uh pong
sweep run a little bit longer the
current sweep that I
have and then I'm going to run a pong
sweep where we use repeat action
probability of
0.25
consistently and if we can't solve pong
with
that or if it's way harder to solve pong
that or anything like that anything of
that matter then we make that
thread then we go make that
thread and we'll have made a very big
contribution to reinforcement
learning because this would be a huge
huge oversight and it's the exact type
of oversight that you could make right
it's like the type of oversight you
would make by not thinking too much
about the games as games and thinking
about them as like math problems to be
solved cuz if you think about this for a
little bit it's kind of obvious right
that like if you screw with the players
controls in a really long game that
demands con like precise inputs
eventually they're going to lose because
of it right
okay
well how's our sweep going at the
moment this still doesn't answer by the
way this it still doesn't answer
perfectly why our sweep has this weird
shape this doesn't answer perfectly why
our sweep has this really weird shape to
it let me find it
right we have this weird
shape I think this is probably just it
being like multimodal and taking a lot
of time
um I think you just need a better
initialization for that so we're
probably going to want to do some work
as to where uh how carbs is
initialized it does eventually work
though which is the important part
and we can actually see now that we've
given it enough time that we have all
these nice consistent runs that are
around 20
right I wonder if it's going to find
faster ones as well because what it
should be doing is it should be finding
more computationally efficient ways of
doing this
now I mean if we're looking at like 19
as solved maybe we're going to get
definitely something that's sub 10
mil without the makato being too
finicky it looks like there is actually
a little bit of stochasticity that it
likes to
have from this repeat action prob which
is kind of
weird the fact that it hasn't driven
this all the way to zero is kind of
weird right
we should probably disable it at
evaluation time
maybe or not I don't know it's probably
fine either way
okay well what I'm going to do now we've
done a lot of good analysis
here uh I'm going to go check the Moa
real quick and then it's
[Music]
2:11 yeah I'm going to I'm not going to
take lunch just yet I'm going to take a
couple minutes and then I'm going to
come back and do some more stuff uh so
what's going on here
nothing's beaten this one
yet this purple
one I think it's looking for like
shorter runs at the
moment yeah it's looking for shorter
runs that do
well and uh it's hasn't found any just
yet yeah this one won't be Pro
optimal but the uh the runs are working
this is good okay I'm going to be back
in uh I'm going be back in a minute or
two clear my head out and then I'm going
to start working on the
uh well the video thing the the talk I
should
say upcoming the upcoming talk and I'll
just storyboard that and I'll uh you
know work on all of that stuff and
answer questions and whatever else be
right back
for
e
e e
okay well I did not expect to find
something of this magnitude
today that's kind of
nutty let me
uh me message Costa real quick
one
second let's see if he knows about this
actually this is this can be public who
cares
e e
all
right that's a that's like a big if true
finding though that's a really big of
true
finding maybe Atari is actually not a
terrible Benchmark like maybe Atari is
not a terrible Benchmark maybe we've
just like shot ourselves in the feet
repeatedly until we didn't have any feet
left
is there one of
these I thought there was a doodle of
this
what okay there isn't one of these I
thought there was going to be one of
these it's I guess this is the closest
one nah I thought there was going to be
a good meme these are not these are too
edgy I was going to post some bet on
X let's do some real work then
um so this is the other thing that I'm
working on while I wait for experiments
like this to finish
working on this
talk I made the schedule for it right
yeah so I'm going to keep storyboarding
this and I'm going to start making some
slides
the goal is to start this this is a talk
that I'm planning on giving and it's
going to be like the second long form
video I'm doing it on stream because why
not this needs to be called the RL cake
no this is the RL
Iceberg yo will I think I just found
like a huge massive [__]
six-year-old problem with reinforcement
learning I think I just found an error
with the makado
paper that sound like it would be
big
so the main thing with the makato paper
right they spend a lot of time they
implement this sticky action
thing where is
it they add this sticky action thing
right this is what they say that you
should use 25% chance of repeating an
action all right and they say that uh
where is
it they say in this table down here that
look it doesn't hurt performance right
it doesn't hurt performance unless
you're using a stupid deterministic
exploiting algorithm yeah you should be
familiar with this right so the thing is
of the original Seven Atari
M yeah they only have cquest and Space
Invaders right well if you scroll down
they have full reports on everything
okay and then if you match this if you
you know do the the red string diagram
and you match this
to the original dqn results you can see
that they match on the they roughly
match on the environments they said
before but on two of the most consistent
environments out
there they fail
breakout and they fail
pong both of these are long Horizon
environments in which you would kind of
expect that if you're messing with the
users controls eventually for breakout
they're going to screw up and like Miss
the ball or for pong they're going to
miss a point or two
right and this was like a technique that
was introduced
supposedly to like fight against some
weird determinism thing that if you
think about it nobody actually ever
showed was a
problem right
I think that this paper might have
actually broken RL like this paper might
have broken
Atari that would be a big finding
wouldn't it I think that would be a
pretty freaking big finding
if like the standard the AL Pi standard
setting breaks
it
right oh and when I ran my
sweep look at this I ran my sweep and I
actually gave a repeat action prob as a
searchable
hyperparameter there is not a single one
of these trials in this sweep of 200 and
something that has over. 13ish repeat
probability that does
well so I need to run a sweep I'm going
to tomorrow or like overnight I'm going
to run a sweep where I fix the repeat
action prob to
0.25 and see if I can solve pong but if
I can't solve pong and that's the only
change then this paper's broken
reinforcement learning
right that's what I'm
thinking that's a pretty big
finding yeah well brok in multiple M's
in the most common environment site
right broken multiple M's in the most
common environment site it's used in
like 95% of
papers the amount of sh Atari
Shenanigans I
found you want to see some uh some fun
curves on
these relative time process
let's see how long it's taking to solve
pong right
now about five minutes I say 5 to six
minutes for our best run to get like 19
point something score average on pong up
here I think we can go maybe here like
so five minutes pong in five minutes on
one GPU
yeah it's really helps when you can
train at 30 to 40,000 steps per
second it's just PO with good hyper
parameters and with good
vectorization and like non-shitty and
wrappers with d it's not just the
algorithm
like so what's this 10 minutes is
10 mil is
like 8 minutes or whatever is
that
so 80
minutes 160 minutes so Less Than 3 hours
for the 200 million frames with this
implementation
the funniest thing is we don't even have
better Sim Tech this is just puffer like
taking garbage out of the existing
ecosystem I just removed some garbage
wrappers and then did my own better
vectorization thing
right this is not the norm
like this is not in other
libraries I mean this is not using like
I'm not using C++ VC or anything here
this is not like the end pool binding
this is not like the official End Pool
binding and this is still 30 to
40K you have a PO impl and
puffer yeah I have
um well it's based on cleaner L's P but
but it has if you've seen it it has a
ton of optimizations in
it has a ton of
optimizations I think that the fastest
you would get the actual clean RL one on
this would be
like maybe 12 to 15K something like that
this is definitely going to be like at
least twice as fast
if we get the full graph here you can
see it's actually tuned
properly just cut yeah there you
go see you well
that was
fun let's work on this a bit I missed a
message before didn't
I I don't know if you're still here what
do you think about Alpha proof very
cool um yeah very cool I don't know what
else the thing is it's very hard to
evaluate how actually good it is I'd
have to ask like
mathematicians okay let me see if I can
get
the the points clear here like the story
for
this so the intro up for
this
is here's AI you know about it learns
one way here's AI that learns a whole
different way it was superum before llms
and it has real world applications so
why haven't you heard of it well it was
Making Waves a few years ago and then it
just
stopped I'm in myphd I've been working
on this for seven years I've worked you
know to make Sims Yad y whatever intro I
want to do and this is the RL Iceberg
everything wrong with reinforcement
learning and how puffer lib is fixing
it now we're not actually going to have
this slide but let me think about the
story as it goes from here the goal is
that in the first few minutes after this
slide there should be information that
will
be new to even current RL
phds so they there will be stuff that
maybe even current people that are phds
in RL don't think about and it just goes
up and up from there it just ramps from
there because it focuses on areas of RL
that
are not necessarily as welln but are the
areas that are causing all the
problems so
level one is
about what points do I want to make here
so
here I want to the goals are
to
um impress
upon viewers how RL and LMS
are
different scale
differently and then I want
to and then I want to use that to
argue that we haven't been leaning into
rl's
strengths so I want to argue that like
academic confusion equals RL not leaning
into
its
strengths is that a clear
point I want to say that where language
model scill with compute RL scales with
data however there was this whole period
of time in which Academia had this
neurotic obsession over sample
efficiency so we were trying to get RL
to do as much as possible with very
small amounts of data and we have
evidence that this is not how RL works
so when you're trying to force RL to do
the thing that language models are good
at of course you're going to just go
over to language models eventually when
it
fails yeah I like that I I like that
narrative so forcing RL to do what LMS
are good at means you are of
course going to
Pivot to LMS when it
fails get use out of RL you need lots of
data which since we have gpus
means you
need uh High perf parallel
simulation that leads us into level
two which is the infrastructure
crisis
um how do I want to frame
this welcome YouTube folks
storyboarding out
this RL talk that's going to be for the
channel um while running experiments in
the background and periodically checking
on those just did a whole bunch of
analysis on uh the MOBA training runs
and on some Atari hyper parameter sweeps
before
so I like how the intro goes of this I
like how the level one narrative is
structured I like the lead into the
level two
narrative infrastructure is such a hard
topic how do I structure
this I have here
there's so many points I want to
make
black box versus white box I want to do
that
I kind of want to structure I need to
structure this in a way that it is
useful for I'm playing two audiences
here right this is
like basically anybody in RL should
learn from this whether you're among the
best in the
world or otherwise and even if you're
not an RL at all this should be like an
entertaining and technically informative
video it's a hard line to
stride cuz I'm trying to be everything
for
everyone
um doesn't mean I can't make a couple
more technical points here and there as
long as I don't they don't go on so long
enough that people get
bored what is how do I want to frame
this as a problem
like is this a dig at Academia
it's not really just a dig at Academia
right it's a huge part of it but
industry has been just as bad with
RL I don't want to make this whole thing
a dig at RL lib either
the academic incentives one is a really
big part of it though isn't it
I could go with the reasons for stuff
which is the incentive
structure I could go with the
historical
precedent which is like the story of
what happened with jimm gymnasium
petting zoo
I could lead one into the
other so something along the lines of we
started off with Jim which was open ai's
library for a few of their environments
and their really early RL experiments
they did not intend this to become the
API for all of rein enforcement learning
but that's what
happened they maintained it for a bit
and then eventually it had to be picked
up by independent maintainers who had
lots of skeletons in the closet to fix
there were lots of breaking version
changes that made it very hard to work
with different environments that were
created in different periods of time um
we had the gym gymnasium petting zus
Schism which caused even more confusion
and then throughout we have all sorts of
rappers and other critical processes
that are are living in these libraries
uh that are subtly broken under the
hood I could do a concise version of
that I want to put this in the MK
this is an important
point but that infra has too much in
it so we take the historical perspective
this is a combination of a historical
problem and a processes problem
right the historical problem is that
open AI well they're kind of both at the
same time they're
Inseparable I mean if you think about it
really the whole problem with this is
that the stuff that got wildly popular
was not designed with the expectation
that it would be wildly popular right
like people were writing code for use in
their specific paper or their specific
projects and then like the whole
Community like grabbed it picked it up
and used it for hundreds of papers
without looking for any skeletons in the
closet
first because there's no incentive in
Academia to look for the skeletons in
the closet right if there skeletons in
the closet then those same skeletons
have been in the closet for everybody
else using the environment and all you
care about is that your algorithm like
is in bold font at the bottom and does
better regardless of the
skeletons right if it's slow it's slow
for everybody if you make it faster you
get penalized for making it faster
because you know if you train for more
samples that's considered
unfair and that ties back into into the
level one
thing h
okay so how do I frame this in like
three lines
at least the intro to it
this is such a hard point to convey
because
like if you haven't worked in
reinforcement learning it's really hard
for me to convey just how bad this
situation is one second I did I do think
I forgot a message let me reply to one
thing and I will continue thinking
through this
okay how do I convey how freaking cursed
this thing
is like what's something that
how can I use the way in which we got to
where RL is now how can I describe that
process in a way that makes it clear
what a complete mess all this
is like the really this is like ever
everything is broken and
nobody is fixing
it I mean that's like the that's the the
line that's like the thing I want to
convey
oh okay I know how to tie this
in
so
because you are
interacting with parallel simulations RL
requires a lot of
infrastructure not needing
did
in uh the rest of
AI
where you just need High torch and a
data
set all of this
infrastructure came about by accident
a small
group even a single PhD student would
release
a
project and then the rest of the
field would pick it
up and use it in hundreds of
papers without
checking checking for
skeletons in the CL
closet without checking for skeletons in
the
closet I need to
add to here because I don't think I want
to talk about academic incentives here
what environments can I save with
this this is not really the best
description of what I want to say right
because you can't really say if somebody
releases like Al Pi was released very
intentionally for this right
not that it was by accident
necessarily there's definitely the
without checking for skeletons in the
Closet part though that's definitely the
case
um
H I really need the key with these
things that's very hard is I have to be
very piy right I have to be very
succinct but I have to not I have to be
very clear and
succinct and I'm not allowed to
oversimplify in the process of doing
that
perf parallel
relation is the source all of the
problems really if you think about it
everything comes down to the fact that
you need high performance parallel
simulations and reinforcement learning
right that
is that doesn't describe what the
problems are and why they exist but that
need that extra bit like that extra
stack of
tooling is why we have
problems and that's not like oh let's
replace it no that's the fundamental
core of RL is that this thing needs to
be done well for it to work
po just works do I put that
here no I think I put that in
MK in the rest of AI you have
[Music]
uh let's see when did we get pytorch
like 2016 when did P torch start getting
good I think it started getting good in
like 2016 or
2017 probably 2016
getting good
in
2016 and the rest of
AI only other thing you
needed was
a data set which you could
load in a few lines of code
not fully fair
either
bundles data loaders I guess this is the
key thing is right the only tool that
you need in the rest of AI to interact
with your data is pytorch and the
pytorch data loaders
right data set and autograd
I want to start with this one
okay how's
that level one the goal is to impress
upon viewers how RL and language models
scale
differently there was academic confusion
which meant that
RL was not leaning into its
and really we were forcing reinforcement
learning to do what language models are
good at which means of course you're
going to you're going to Pivot to
language models when you fail to use RL
correctly I can make that story very
nice and
compelling level two in the rest of AI
all you need is a data set and autograd
to get you out of
RL you
need hyperf parallel
simulation for
and now we can go into the gym gymnasium
Schism because it's
yeah the standard for this is open AI
gym which provides collection of
environments and Associated tools to run
them on multiple
processes but open AI
let me see can I say they didn't intend
for this to
happen toolkit for developing and
comparing reinforcement learning
algorithms I don't know if this was
changed
though oh this is the original
no this is really we need to go
back we need to go way
back we need to go way back to before
this was
maintained
o it's literally not even here
what
happened I can't [__] I wish we had the
original file
dang how do we not have
that
H it's three years ago I guess
I it saw three years ago right on the
read
me I think that they started maintaining
this in like 09 or
something or is
it yeah three
years and when did open AI stop doing
stuff with this
right I wish I had the historical
context I can look at gym
3 four years
ago so they stopped maintaining this
around
2020 right
oh wait I can look at the I can look at
the package releases uh I know how to do
it come on say that this is here
yes okay good we have this
here
2019 fixes
slides fitches fixes fetch slide
environment so this is not a real update
right this is the main the last main
update
is
here in February
okay ah okay I see I know how we do this
now
did people use this as much back in
2018 they didn't
right kind of everybody was just doing
their own thing back
then cut release
all M's run off
screen
yeah what happen since there's 12
.5 were there other versions
wait we have to do some archaeology here
in order to figure this
out
uh release
history
ah there are more packages
what the heck where uh why don't we have
the commits for them then what
happened did they squash the entire
freaking history of this important repo
who the heck was maintaining this
we've lost some of the important history
here that's
tough well I mean I was around this
whole
time were they doing
stuff they didn't really do stuff with
this after DOTA right
2020 is the absolute latest they were
doing anything because that's gym
3 2
7th April October November
[Music]
January yeah
that
game the
standard more by
dance then
design
and J became the standard more by happen
stance than
design
painting
object the 2020 is what we sound for
sure
in
2020 how many damn releases are
there would they have tweeted this I
don't even know if I can go back that
far
when did they stop really developing it
is the
question the procgen competition would
have been the last thing
right in 2020
they yeah they really they stopped doing
RL in 2020
mment around
2020 how is this going to make the point
let me let it let me just give it a
sentence or two more and then we'll see
if it looks
good started doing major open source RL
development this is supposed to be
stopped
I don't know if I like this narrative
the way that this is going
what happened before 2020 2020 is
already too
late right should have already taken off
by then so what happened
the
rappers the
vectorization what stuff can we say
here Atari being relatively
low I need to like pin down here the the
thing I want to do is pin
down like what's like the biggest cause
of this like I can I've never really
thought about that to be honest so this
is kind of cool for me like what's the
biggest cause of infrastructure being on
fire
cuz if you ask me that like I can't give
you one thing right I give you a million
different things that are wrong I can
give you like the gym gymnasium petting
zus Schism like the total massive
versioning the like poor dependency
hygiene slow wrappers uh really poor
vectorization implementation poorly
thought out observation and action space
API poorly thought out discrepancy
between single and multi-agent API right
simulation speed
you know
ultimately I think ultimately the blame
is on
Atari you
right it's on Atari being
slow if itari were just fast none of
this would have happened right
dqn is also kind of a slow architecture
but like dqn wouldn't be designed the
way it's designed at the moment if Atari
were faster right everything kind of
stemmed from Atari being
slow that's a funny thing to think about
right
the original dqn didn't even run
multiple parallel simulations
right you
see wait State
action yeah no the original dqn didn't
even do that was a2c
they didn't do multiprocessing at all
right I forgot about
that so I guess it's a historical
Quirk I don't even know if this thing
used gpus did it
probably
did training and
stability this wasn't even parallel I'm
pretty darn sure
I think it was a2c that was
parallel
yeah so it's kind of the fact that
everybody ran with Atari even though it
became
impractical
as is Atari really that Atari is not
even that that slow
though but we did do the uh the
vectorization in Python in naive python
at
that
so I actually I have this in my uh don't
I have this in my my paper
somewhere yeah I do
how fast did I say it
was oh really slow really slow a few
thousand
FPS
okay that's a
story that's a
story for
yeah how much
faster
okay to get you set of RL you need high
performance parallel simulation
the problem is that
this was not
recognized early
on dqn
paper uh was
everyone
picked used Atari after the dqn
paper which is kind of
slow to begin
with
standard wrappers
ready
with
unoptimized python
[Music]
wrappers
and
naive right and
multiprocessing for
this
limits relation to a few
thousand steps per second at most and
left gpus on five %
utilization 5% GPU du utilization is
pretty bad and I've seen that many times
combine this
with batch sizes due to an over
emphasis sample efficiency
and RL was
running over an order of magnitude
slower than it should
have GPU flops char
chart where's the freaking
chart
3,000 okay we're gonna we're going to do
something fun here
flops where is
flops uh RTX
where are flops I'm going to see what
I'm going to do is I'm going to show how
much you'd have to downgrade your card
it's going to be
fun
um okay so
80 is that
right I don't think that's right there's
no way that it goes from 35
to 82
right what cor is garbage
did they put flops on
here or do they just
put Tech
porn nope just Tech porn
35.5
flops
flops okay so here we have
flops so what I'm going to do here is
I'm going to figure out how much slower
a card
was Nvidia
series transistors die size the flops
processing power T
flops what's wrong with these freaking
charts why are they so
Jank 4090
right
TDP uh
flops single Precision 73
is that right that seems really
high that seems like really really high
compared to the previous
one maybe they got the other one wrong
T
flops yeah that's like crazy it's like
twice the
3090 I don't believe that
yeah so this is the thing that they're
talking about
oh it's a much more expensive card I
remember
cool okay so we use this
number which
is 73 82 something like that
so we're
1080 so three whole Generations four
generations of
cards e
it's not even fair because like that's
so warped
if I were to do from 3090
down to like
three
[Music]
300ish 970
no I think that this conveys it it's
about four generations of Hardware
Gap right that makes
sense I remember 970s
yeah I mean that totally makes sense
right we wouldn't have language we would
not have large language models for
another 10 years if everybody had to
downgrade their chips for Generations
right that makes total
sense for
I think it was more than 10x bad
though I mean if I use like default
cleanar default S sp3 as The Benchmark
right it's like
2,000 that's like
15x
right and that's really the fair
Benchmark it's like 15x
that'll really drive home the
point so like if I do like 15x right
this is is actually really close to the
steps per second of Atari funny enough
so you go down from here like to 2,000
or 2500
right I it was like closer to
2500 a
590 that would be the Striking
comparison right
GTX
590 this is this actually might even be
being
generous because I've seen I've seen
worse than this number before like very
often what number did I quote on the
puffer
video
oops let me find it
let me go find the
uh 1,500 steps per
second wait is this is it 1500 steps per
second oh
yeah okay here this is 20
2800 and it's, 1500 before you used the
VC okay so 2,800 is what we're going to
go for that's like the fairest thing
that's based off of my
video 680
a
okay I think that's how you convey it
okay I think I figured it out this is
how you convey to
people who don't know RL just just like
how freaking stupid this whole situation
is
um why can't I
see
wait okay there it just didn't rescale
properly
um when you put speed into perspective
it's like hey what if I downgraded your
490 to a 680 right you don't have to
know anything about RL for that you
could be you could know that from this
from games you could know this from
other areas of AI like you're not
getting anything done on a 680 right
you're getting nothing
done I can make this exact point and
make it even stronger
let's just start with
that e
like people understand people understand
catastrophic Hardware failure they don't
understand catastrophic software failure
right how do I lead this start
what is this talk
for it's not for a conference it's for
the uh just for the channel and for
puffer in general I said I was going to
make I was going to try to make more
long form high quality
content so I'm going to try this video
out and uh if like my thesis if it gets
a bunch of views and if people like it
then I'll make more if not then I
won't but this is just getting all of my
thoughts out on the current state of
reinforcement learning how puffer is
fixing it you know why this hasn't
happened by
now it's very difficult it's not like
even having worked in this space for so
so long like I know all the things wrong
but like conveying these simply is still
very very difficult it just took me two
hours to come up with this way of saying
it like if I downgraded your RTX 490 to
a 680 you'd understand how bad that is
right you'd understand that you're not
getting anything done if you train
models you're not really going to be
doing that anymore if you play games
they're not going to look very good but
when you have that same level or worse
of efficienty loss on the software side
for all of reinforcement learning nobody
bats an
eye and you know you wonder why this
stuff didn't work well maybe your GPU
shouldn't be on 5%
utilization how I said that right there
is how this has to go into the talk
actually
that's exactly how I have to frame
this what's causing the performance loss
in existing implementation a million
things catastrophic failure across every
single portion of the reinforcement
learning
stack I there's no other way of saying
it it's not just python overhead my
whole stack is python it's catastrophic
failure at every possible
Point garbage vectorization garbage
wrappers right garbage like choices of
scaling parameters for
gpus every possible point that you make
a decision that involves efficiency we
made the wrong one every single
one and then to your point people will
go oh it's python slow what makes
vectorization good um well look at the
puffer lib vectorization there's a whole
thing in the the puffer lib paper on
archive on how I do it and uh for
comparison where is
it for comparison right uh and I
actually I made it twice as fast since I
made I released this paper as well so
the gynasium VEC caps out at 4.8 th000
steps per second on a high-end desktop
so no matter what you're doing you're
not training faster than this because
this is as fast as you can get new data
with puffer lib 25,000 and actually
nowadays it's 50 or
60,000 catastrophic
failure it's actually way worse than
this because the way that they would
Implement training like they'd get 4.8
th000 uh steps per second simulation but
then they'd screw it up so bad that
training would be at like 2020 I think
2800 was The Benchmark that I had uh
last
time 2800 steps per second
training catastrophic
failure for reference I'm currently
training Atari at about 35,000 steps per
second right
now on the same
Hardware e
I'm assuming they also vectorize
environment so how is one vectorization
better than the it's yeah it's in the
paper I do a lot of stuff I have nice
tricks with shared memory I have async
on policy sampling I have uh way better
W uh mechanisms of synchronizing workers
without introducing interprocess
communication overhead I limit to uh one
environment per no I don't limit to one
environment per worker so I don't crowd
with lots of small processes I batch
multiple environments per worker lots
and lots of things like
this the puffer V implementation is by
as far as I'm aware it's the fastest one
out there by a mile nobody has the same
stuff in it
I didn't realize this when I made it
Tano actually had something kind of
similar that like nobody uses Tano that
I know so nobody like I think it's more
you The Branding right Chinese so it's
like more popular in China I think um so
they actually kind of had something
similar but they missed like all of the
really big optimizations that puffer has
that make it really work
for
e e
680 release
date
[Music]
2012 22 it's like 10 years
am I right that's a 10-year delay double
every 2
years it's not been two years for the
Invidia GPU Has
It 2
46 that's the number of transistors not
the
flops 10 years of that's 10 years
what level of programming does this
require are you implementing custom Kuda
kernels how else do you control shared
memory it's all open source it's way
simpler than you would
expect it's all in python as well it's
and it's faster than most C++ VC
actually it's faster than all the C++ V
I tried
pure python not even
scon it's all in
here timed down to
the optimized to within like maybe 10
micros seconds or
whatever we
have interprocess communication without
uh without signaling via semaphor or
pipes or you know things like that it's
just signaling is done through shared
memory arrays shared memory is allocated
in one giant block that every all the
environments write into directly so you
don't have to do data copying uh on the
main
process
asynchronicity efficient implementation
of asynchronicity optional useful for
most
environments many many things this took
me a couple this took me at least a good
couple of weeks
it's not that long
though and there's a lot of stuff in
here between this and the paper you'll
get the picture of it quite a few
details I also discussed this I have a
video on this as well it's pinned on my
uh it's on the YouTube as well it's like
one of the main Channel videos so you
can see
that doesn't require implementing custom
Cuda kernels cuz I don't know how to do
that I still made stuff faster right
that's what I'm saying it's not like
this doesn't require you to be a total
low-level programming wizard it's just
like yeah the state of RL is that bad
33 does the Gill cause any
limitations kind of
let me
well let me put it this way it probably
would have been substantially easier to
implement um if I could have used
threads instead of
processes but I think that the final
solution that I came up with is I don't
know if I could make it any faster given
access to threads does that make
sense like making a here making like the
current vectorization outside of puffer
making the gymnasium implementation
faster would be way easier with
threads but I don't think it would be
faster than puffer's
implementation you still incur extra
copies and extra [__] with
threads and I think my signaling my
signaling mechanism is still probably
faster the one thing is that
um the one limitation of the puffer
thing at the moment is
like technically it requires busy
waiting in one spot there's one spot
that you have to do busy waiting uh
which is kind of awkward but it makes a
huge performance difference you might be
able to cut that out with threads but
you might not it depends on what
signaling mechanisms would be available
and of course you know even if you had
no Gill threads in Python that doesn't
mean that they're going to be fast I
mean we're looking at
like we're looking at like individual
microc seconds that you can shave off
potentially here um because you need to
have if you want to have million step
per second vectorization right if you
want to have stuff that scales like that
well if you have a microsc of overhead
then you're not getting a million steps
from one process now we're not getting
that anyways but you know across all the
processes we definitely
are
for
e
e e
let me see how I like this bit what does
900% overhead look like that's like
downgrading your RTX 490 to a 680 or
waiting until 2033 to be able to train
gp4 welcome to reinforcement learning
after the dqn paper RL research
standardized on Atari which is slow to
begin with tack on a bunch of
unoptimized python wrappers and naive
multiprocessing and your simulations are
limited to a few thousand steps per
second at most
that's a good framing
that's a good like overview I
think slightly longer than the first one
but this is the longest section of the
talk the second section
I like that I like
that this is the hard bit the framing is
the hard bit the content is the easy bit
right the framing of the story and the
getting like the main points right is
the is the really really hard bit right
doing a slide on like you know what's
wrong with observation and action spaces
how does puffer fix that the technical
stuff is
easy framing stuff is hard
it's kind of funny it's like it's kind
of like how coming up with good
abstractions in programming is hard and
it's so hard to the point that like the
right thing to do is almost always to
just not come up with abstractions and
just write all the code AS simply as
possible but you can't do that with this
type of content with story
Stelling because you need to have those
like clear signposted messages right at
every
step because if listening to a
presentation or listening to a talk is
like reading 1500 lines of code well
that's not going to be a good time
right like every single time I think
it's going to be cool to like go through
the entire implementation of a thing
right and just like show you block by
block how simple it is and like how nice
it is it never works in a presentation
right CU it doesn't follow like the The
Narrative Arc that people expect it's
weird for
okay so the third
section is about how all of
reinforcement learning is
wrong
um I me I think I can make this point
without even getting into academic fraud
I've seen plenty of academic fraud in my
day and plenty of like you know
unintentional or like you know swept
under the rug probably we should have
evaluated this thing better that's very
common heck we found today we found
something today in uh one of the most
cited papers out
there let me go
through I see we have a bunch of folks
on YouTube who like watching me make
slides for some reason welcome I do
actually do experiments as well we have
some training in the
background lots of experiments training
in the background actually here's 264 of
them and then on the MOBA let's see if
we've gotten any
progress
36 little
bit interesting how this shape works out
we'll have to look at that later but
yeah we got stuff tuning on both um I'm
going to go through this one more
time just to see if I like The Narrative
of
it and then what I'm going to do is I'm
going to go make myself a shake be back
after five minutes and uh then I'm going
to do level three of this the misk and
then hopefully that'll give
me I'll probably have like an hour or
two to actually
start uh to start on like the individual
like the the more specific
content I don't have a release date for
this talk it's done when it's
done so the story here is going to be
the flow of it this isn't the actual
content but the flow is along the lines
of he language models this is AI you
know about it learns One Way by
compressing text here's AI that learns a
whole different way it was superhuman
before llms even existed and it has real
world applications so why haven't you
heard of it well reinforcement learning
was Making Waves a few years ago and
then it just
stopped I'm Joseph I'm an MIT PhD I've
worked in reinforcement learning for
seven years I created neural MMO and
this is the RL Iceberg everything wrong
with reinforcement learning and how
puffer lib is fixing it
this will not be included as a slide
this is the outline of what I want the
presentation to be level one the goal is
to impress upon the viewers how
reinforcement learning and language
models scale differently reinforcement
learning scales with data language
models scale with
compute academic confusion meant that
really we spent a lot of years in
reinforcement learning research not
leaning into the strengths of
reinforcement learning and instead
demanding that RL work like an llm and
that it scale with compute instead of
data so forcing RL to do what llms are
good at means of course it's not going
to work and you're going to Pivot to
llms when it
fails level two is about the rampant
inefficiency and difficulty of working
with infrastructure in this space what
does 900% overhead look like that's like
downgrading your RTX 490 to a 680 or
waiting until 2033 to be able to train
gp4 this is reinforcement learning so
after the dqm paper put RL onto the
board research standardized on Atari
Atari is already slow to begin with but
when you tack on a bunch of unoptimized
python wrappers and really naive
multiprocessing implementations your
simulations get limited to a few
thousand steps per second at most for
comparison puffer's new Sims run at 1 to
15 million steps per second per core
more on that in a bit for now let's talk
about how we got into this mess and how
puffer Li is fixing it and the agenda
for that is going to be the gym and
gymnasium petting zus Schism slow
wrappers macato paper that I just
learned about today was being wrong
we're going to talk about complex
observation and action spaces and how
those are difficult and inefficient to
work with we're going to talk about
simulation techniques and all the
stupidly slow simulators that have been
released and vectorization and how you
have to put some work into that to make
that fast
how does meta I'll take this question
and then get my shake so I'll be back at
five minutes after I answer this uh how
does meta RL get optimized you cannot
have any mini
batches and the gradients seemingly blow
up with large
batches how does meta reinforcement
learning get
optimized you cannot have any mini
batches I don't think that that is
strictly true
so first of all there's not a consistent
framing of metal learning in the first
place
right if you talking about what's it
called mammal no what's the
acronym is it
mammal whatever the really obnoxious one
where you do gradients of gradients um
yeah that one's kind of Jank there's
also AR there are like architecture
implementations of this as well there's
like snail there's like the classic ual
learning framing right the Schmid Hues
one where you just don't reset lstm
State and you learn across episodes that
way
um yeah so I don't
think I don't think that like that one I
didn't even really like that approach to
doing it in the first place is what I
would say um no learning to learn first
of all you don't even necessarily have
to train yeah sampling new on policy
data yeah you the thing is like that
framework there that's not even
necessarily the way to go right
like new on so you can't yeah I don't
just because mammals Jank doesn't mean
that metal learning is ultimately going
to be bad um there's a question of
whether you even need to do explicit
metal learning in the first place right
the idea is that you want something that
can learn to learn that's the whole
concept
right RL has this really bad habit of
splitting out like individual aspects of
learning and then making them into
subfields with an explicit objective
before we know that that problem even
needs to be answered let me give you an
example there's a whole bunch of
research on algorithms for theory of
mind but we know that theory of mind can
be learned implicitly by simple on
policy learning because the DOTA Bots
doing what they did requires that they
have a modeling of what the opponents
are doing same thing with the StarCraft
one and they don't have explicit theory
of mind work it's just emergent same
exact thing could be for learning to
learn right for
curiosity entirely possible same exact
thing could be happening for World
models right we might not need an
explicit World modeling objective you
need to have some sort of internal World
model implicit or explicit in order to
reason in complex environments in the
first place
so it could very well be that metal
learning happens just by training on a
bunch of environments at the same time
once we get a sufficient number Quant of
uh high quality fast environments it
could be that we do something way
simpler where we come up with like you
know a better way to have explicit
memory and that's the thing that gets
updated over you know multiple episodes
or something there many many ways that
we could uh that we could implement it
and generally I would say that we should
lean into algorithmic approaches that
scale with Hardware so if we're looking
for things that are likely to produce
good results
in learning to learn or whatnot we
should look towards algorithms that are
easy to scale with more gpus and with
faster simulations right we should not
be trying to put ourselves into a box of
doing stuff that scales poorly with
Hardware advancements betting against
Hardware is a bad idea so having Jank
algorithms that make it really hard to
scale or make it really hard to
implement efficiently that's probably
the wrong way to go that's my
long-winded answer
I'll be right back I'll be back in like
five minutes going to make myself a
shake and then we're going to do I'll
answer a couple questions with this
maybe we'll do level three um I'll do
maybe a little bit of the misc outline
and then I will start on individual
slides that's what I'm going to do and
we'll check maybe some experiments be
right
back
e
for e
okay I am
back hello
folks so funny to me that people
actually like watch me making slides and
stuff I've noticed like viewership tends
to go up when I have like a new cool
code thing that I'm doing that that like
can teach you some particular INF or
whatever or like when I'm doing
something like this interactive where
I'm like talking through stuff and then
obviously when I'm doing like the Deep
work on code then people get
bored it's
funny anything exploding here oops
nope
cool
so level
three how do we prove that all the
science is
wrong
for for
impossible that the
majority of reinforcement
learning papers are good
science I got to go reread the
statistical precipice papers because I
think that I have a slightly different
argument actually let's pull that paper
up real quick just so I refresh a little
bit so this paper everybody goes nuts
about this paper it's a Bel May
paper wait wasn't he on the freaking
makato paper wait
this is a belmare
paper this is a
belmare first or second author paper
okay hold
on comparing their relative performance
on a large suite of
tasks most published results compar
Point estimates of aggregate performance
such as a mean and medium
score ignoring the statistical in
uncertainty implied by using a finite
number of training
runs beginning with the arcade learning
environment the shift towards
computationally demanding benchmarks has
led to the practice of
evaluating only a small number of runs
per task exacerbating the statistical
uncertainty in point estimates
in this paper we argue that reliable
evaluation few runs deep R regime cannot
ignore the uncertainty and results
without running the risk of slowing down
progress in the field we illustrate this
point using Atari 100K find substantial
discrepan is between conclusions drawn
from point estimates alone is more
thorough statistical
analysis the a of increasing the fields
confidence in reported results with a
handful of runs we Advocate reporting
interval estimates of aggregate
performance
and propose performance profiles to
account for the Vari results as well as
to present more robust and efficient
aggregate metrics such as to quantal
mean
scores we scrutinize results of existing
algorithms including Al protin DMC
revealing discrepancies and prior
comparisons prevent an open source are
reliable to prevent unreliable results
from stagnating the f
everyone yeah this is what I remember it
being everybody went nuts over this
paper and I always thought this paper
was
stupid you know why I thought this paper
stupid cuz it's like you're a Google
brain researcher where you have a bunch
of of compute and you're basically
saying that we need to run more we need
to run more random seeds for all the
environments and like this stupid
Benchmark is already so slow that it's
impossible to do
that so like the solution to this is not
like you know oh you guys need to do
better science it's we need a faster
Benchmark so that we can do that
this is such an Academia paper right
here this is like such this is Peak
Academia here
ataria 100K is a stupid Benchmark as
well stratified
bootstrap
confident so what you're recommending is
you just report a massive a massive
confidence interval that's useless
because you can't
yeah I remember this is why I hate this
paper I got to reread the full paper to
be sure
it's funny I found two papers by the
same guy who's like incredibly well
known that I hate in the same
day this is like such a your technically
correct the best kind of correct paper
right e
I had to reread the whole paper before I
say I totally hate it but I mean the
like the framing of this thing is awful
it's like it's like a paper about the
problem completely ignoring the cause
which is that the environments are too
damn
slow okay so now I know I don't have to
care about this here
I'm going to address this paper here
actually because this is a very widely
known and respected paper
how should I frame it
Ed computed using what is this
most published results are too
noisy
used
basis
for e
pause this
problem there
can't run more
trials researchers can't run more
trials
because
environments are so slow they barely
have compute
let me
see can I see how much compute they used
in this paper that would be
hilarious uniformly sampled with 100
runs
case study on Atari 100K is a dumb
benchmark
statistically
impossible is this how I want to frame
this let me let me work this all the way
through and then I'll see if I can cut
it down
oh I know what I can
do one my recent works
we ran a simple oblation
study on
Atari or a
single for how many tricks did we
test
bricks
NPS yeah this is bad
[Music]
that's so
funny where is uh where's our
paper nurs 2023 dreamer
B3 a hang SW is and Ryan yeah here it
is so how many tricks did we
test one two three four
five we tested five tricks
simple
trxs
algorithmic
modifications none of
which
decrease uh increase training time
to get
reasonable how many sees did we do
multiple
seeds three
seeds get
results for three
seeds spent
10,000
a100 compute
hours this was
through a
partnership and would be out Out Of
Reach of nearly all
academics the
precipice at least
seeds let
demics to not have enough Hardware to do
this
is
impossible
that um
majority of P published
papers are statistically
sound okay this is the argument I think
this phrasing is really bad and really
like over long
winded let me go through
this let me go through
this because this is
like it's so funny that like all
throughout my PhD right
I kept getting told like you know oh
this is engineering this isn't science
this is you're just doing engineering
you're doing performance optimation
you're not doing science right this is
what the Crusty academics will tell
you but here you can see
provably that whatever you're doing it
ain't good science because I know you
don't have the hardware to do this
properly because your environments are
too slow and the funny thing is if I
just made all your environments 100
times faster
you could do good science you do the
exact same thing that you're doing now
do more runs and you'd have good science
perfect so doesn't that make engineering
science doesn't that make engineering
good science if you literally can't do
good science without
it I've had academics tell me like yeah
it's needed but then the engineering
itself still isn't science isn't that
crazy like yeah we need the engineering
to do good science but the engineering
itself isn't science so that shouldn't
be published isn't that funny it's like
yeah we just expect somebody else to do
all this for us and uh for free and uh
then what we're going to do is we're
going to make sure that you can't even
publish your work we're going to make
sure we reject all your work through a
review and we're going to just expect it
to get done
anyways that's the real state of things
let's go through this
it is statistically impossible the
majority of RL papers are good
science the well-known statistical
precipice paper shows that most
published results are too noisy to tell
when one method is better than
another I don't like this paper it's
technically correct the best kind of
correct I don't need that joke in the
intro but it completely ignores the
cause of this problem researchers can't
run more trials because the environments
are so slow they barely have compute for
their current work
in one of my recent works we ran a
simple ablation study on Atari for five
simple algorithmic modifications none of
which increased training time to get
results for three seeds we spent 10,800
compute hours this was through a
partnership and would be Out Of Reach of
nearly all academics the precipice
papers paper suggests that at least at
least 25 seeds since academics do not
have enough Hardware to do this it's
impossible that the majority of papers
are statistically sound it's a good it's
it's a sound argument but it doesn't win
you don't win just by having a sound
argument you need to have a py argument
at the same time
right for
so I mean the format for this
is like
catchy catchy some sort of hook
provocative hook that then is explained
catchy
hook e
how do I want to hook this
the only correct RL pray papers are from
Google where's Mark
Bellman is it Mark is it this
guy wait
no is it this guy wait Mark
belare no wait where's the fre where's
this
paper
Mark is it this
guy
wait is this the economist wait this
doesn't seem
right if it's this guy I'm going to
understand well his website doesn't
work it can't be this guy right
it's this guy Reliant
AI oh he's doing some weird thing
okay um
so he's not a Prof
okay and he was at Google right yeah
research lead at Google brain Deep Mind
okay
only good
reinforcement learning
papers from Google
that's kind of quippy I like that
is it all
Google first author Google Google GOOG
yeah I say Google
statistical precipice
paper
demonstrates that RL
researchers
don't or hardly
[Music]
ever run enough
experiments to
statistically prove
that uh
their methods
are
good for
I'm trying to make I'm trying to do like
a quippy thing here where I'm
essentially saying that Google wrote
basically Google wrote a paper saying
that we have a lot of
gpus right cuz that's what this ultim
amounts to like they wrote this really
long winded statistical paper that
ultimately says hey you guys can't do RL
because you don't have enough gpus to do
it
right that's ultimately what it says
right
[Music]
I got to figure out how to get the
language on this
right the framing of this is very
important because this genuinely isn't
this genuinely isn't RL researchers
fault except in so far as it
blocking um you know
blocking systems research from being
published that's the only thing it's
really the RL community's fault and a
lot of that's more senior people you
know like AC's
I think I saved this as the quip and I
do almost all RL papers are wrong
very
few
Publications pain enough
experiments to
statistically back their claims
is
technically wrect but misses the
point it's a Google
paper uh
arguing
that only Google has enough gpus to do
RL
right to do RL
right researchers can't run enough
experiments
because uh
Atari is too
slow and you need Atari results to
publish
okay I think we're going to split the
second part out into more
slides but I think that this is like a
more
like cuz this
like this is the thing that I want right
this draws the parallel between fixing
the science of
RL and just improving the infrastructure
this is how just improving the
infrastructure makes the science of RL
work
right the environments are fast you can
run more
experiments it's that
easy you don't have statistical evidence
for your claims Run 10 times more
experiments now you have your evidence
right if you run 30 seeds instead of
three you're
good for
I really like that
interpretation Google argues that only
Google has gpus to do RL right
I like
that for
this is I want
to this is rapid fire
way in on a bunch of topics
that didn't
fit anywhere
else
Jax
is domain specific
languages limit The Sims we can
write
and hold RL back from working on
more interesting M's it's good
for physics a
life and a few other
NES craft ax is the
exception that proves the
rule academic incentives
emia
revolves heavily
around math
algorithms the narrow
definition of
science if you
write an
[Music]
algorithm that does 10% better
then current state of the
art
with
mediocre statistical
evidence and
experiments that's a good
paper if you write a tool makes
all
algorithms 10%
faster
um you get
nothing get a nurs
spotlight if you write a tool that makes
all algorithms 10% faster you get
nothing no wonder none of this has been
fixed in 10 years
okay I'll have to make that point better
but it's absolutely
true
um what about
industry too many
Fang Engineers used
to Big
software industry libraries try to
modularize RL into a bunch of neat
little black
boxes that always
work RL
is an emerging
field and the researchers need to
edit every
portion of the stack
meaning it needs to not be
30,000
[Music]
lines Huffer lib
follows clean
RLS white box software
approach meaning all the code is is
concise
simple as possible with minimal
abstractions so you can't use it
to uh
do as many things off the shelf but it's
easy to
edit understand and
edit okay
uh
open-endedness thing about this is that
nothing
has been inclusively better than
po was
publish in
2017 2017 right
yeah and
solved
DOTA with a 160 mil
Ram neural net with a on layer
lstm okay and make that point
somewhere open-endedness
I way
in on lots of
subfields and thoughts about
them
open-endedness AI that keeps learning
forever cool
concept
requires more
complex and forant Sims then we
have bothered to develop
likely
uh an area that will be
propelled
by
uh high performance engineering
first and algorithms second
meta learning learning to
learn
similar in concept more related to
generalization to new
environments or
tasks um
you don't get something that learns the
general process of learning by only
playing
Hong again requires complex and
performant Sims in the
meanwhile curriculum
learning practical
alternative
curriculum learning
that can
do many tasks or that is trained on many
tasks to perform to better
perform single hard task it's a more
immediately achievable goal with
real
success that has seen real
success real
success still requires good
Sims but more feasible than
open-endedness n or
meta as a shortterm
goal
uh oh curiosity
flash
continual related continual learning
continual
curiosity
involve learning to
learn
okay and what
else
Loop otherwise you get the the compute
demands of uh LMS the
data demands
of
RL likely want to
querry like
0.01% of the time to guide RL or use LMS
to
set
tasks for curriculum
learning
okay those are some good
thoughts it's a pretty good
outline I think I get to start working
on the actual slides
now I don't know if I want to it's so
annoying like as soon as you go down to
the level of granularity of like slides
you lose all the higher level stuff and
you're just like you just start thinking
about like the placement of text and
stuff like that I think I want to figure
out maybe a little bit more granular
first like how many
slides I'm going to do and then what
they're going to look
like or maybe I just do some
intentionally really crappy slides
maybe that's
better like if I make them intentionally
bad then I won't be you know I
won't spend the time to uh to fine-tune
stuff until I have like the full outline
that I'm happy with because prematurely
optimizing this is is the same as in
code
right me double check a thing or two
real quick it's 512 meaning I'll
probably be doing this for another hour
and a half
halfish cool got a thing confirmed for
[Music]
tomorrow this is funny I think I told
one of my
collaborators uh to use Twitter
because it's needed you need to use
Twitter and AI for anybody to know
anything about your
work and you started tweeting like you
know frustrated things about the puffer
lib config system it's you know like hey
okay you can use Twitter but you know
that I read it too
right you all should follow uh Kong by
the way if you use Twitter uh he was
really the major force behind the latest
neural MMO competition he has done a ton
of great work and he's just come back
and started using Twitter so expecting
to see great things from him
soon and since we still have a few
people on YouTube in case we have
anybody new uh that hasn't seen this
before oops not
this all the stuff that I work on is
open source on GitHub if you want to
start the repo puff i/p puffer lib it
helps me out a whole ton to get this
stuff out there I know right now I'm
just working on this like video/ talk
thing kind of framing what puffer is
doing I think that's going to be
important um but most of the time I'm
doing experiments and deving stuff I've
got these running in the background
let's do a quick check up on
them MOA found a few good uh few good
settings I don't know what it's doing
now what is it doing now
actually oh it's doing shorter runs it
looks like for the most
part yeah so what it's doing right now
is it's doing a bunch of shorter runs
it's looking for a set of hyper
parameters that's better than the really
long set of hyper parameters so that's
actually very reasonable for it to be
doing so it's going to spend a whole
bunch of time looking to see if it can
find something better than these long
ones here which is kind of funny that it
does
that how about our pong
sweep we got pong
solved so I'm definitely going to kill
this and then rerun it before um I go
today because we have to run the
alternative version of this but this is
a very nice result
I guess it's going to just try to solve
it faster and faster now
right episode return let's the up
time so 300 is 5
minutes so the best we have right now is
18. six
in 4 minutes it looks
like 18.6 in about 4
minutes
or yeah these ones all take longer it
looks
like is the Pito optimal
Frontier it's pretty good
though 18.6
very nice
graphs
okay
um let's start on some
slides so impress upon viewers how RL
and language models scale differently
okay academic confusion equals RL not
leaning into its strengths
so let's
do see debacle
saying round pegs into square holes
Square
pegs
okay
okay RL scales or what is it
lm's scale with compute RL scales with
data oops
scaling
walls where is
it where's the thing
yeah this is
it is
that so we just grab this
let's prove
this scaling laws prove this
okay so essentially these two are
fundamentally different and we actually
have proof that this is the
case we have
proof you need 100x less
compute at
most or
RL okay
which means you spend the
balance on more
data um
it's in
researchers want it to look like this
because real world sample and
see robots are not the only use for
RL
um round pegs wear
holes lots of simulat
and
interactive online
processes RS bars
okay and then I have to show how bad
this is
right I have a slide for
this yeah yeah this was a good slide
lots of
data we do 200 mil from 10 and this goes
to 1.4 TB
wait 14400
gigabytes and then you always
do
yeah you always do it like this
60k images does this make
sense
times y
six yeah that's perfect like 47
MB is making sure I got the data Cal
right doing back of envelope data size
Cals is really
useful only have
46 MB of data train
old
uh digit
classifiers
but in
RLS in
RL we train on over one
terabyte data
and have unlimited more where that came
from round Peg square holes
I like this this is funny
this section is too short relative to
the other
ones for
let me think how can
I this section is just way too short
oh I know what I should do here I should
link this to puffer lib somehow
right for
I don't know I'll just grab a random
sweep for now because that's probably
what we're going to put on here is like
a sweep
graph probably just put a sweep graph on
here right
whatever I don't even need a
placeholder we
do weep
puffer
lib designed to play to
rl's
strengths that's not entirely true
though right
and for high data things
first
and trickle down results to lower data
settings like
insights from scale to lower data that's
better I like
that okay 1 two 3 four five this is like
a nice intro section it's pretty easy to
digest right it tells you something nice
and high level about
RL language model scale and I like that
having this first section being more
accessible as well language model scale
with compute reinforcement learning
scales with data we have proof that you
need 100 times less compute at most for
reinforcement learning which means that
you're going to spend the balance on
having more
data as a comparison you only have 46
megabytes of data for training old digit
classifiers but in reinforcement
learning we train on over a terabyte of
data and have unlimited more where that
came
from for some some
reason uh researchers want a lot of
researchers want RL to look like
this because of real world sample
efficiency they want to apply
reinforcement learning to low data
settings but this is not playing to RL
strengths this is hammering Square pegs
into round holes and maybe RL will be
able to do this eventually but it's a
heck of a lot easier in an emerging
field to to play to RL strength first
something like that
our puffer lib is designed to play to RL
strengths we design for high data
settings first and then apply the
insights from scale to lower lower data
settings
after that's a good slide I mean a good
like good rough narrative I think that
the Arc of that is good and I can polish
it from
there level two in for on file on fire
[Music]
infra
on fire
I don't even know what to like attribute
this
to oh actually I know what these headers
should
be the sample efficiency debac
round pegs into square holes that's a
nice little motto there infra on
fire A Tail of 900%
overhead that's good
didn't I have a I thought I had this
graphic somewhere didn't I yeah this one
work it's
obnoxious does this do background remove
quick
what's the freaking ding
board background
thing damn it yen
oh my gosh freaking internet these
days oh this was
good if I can get the
image
680 there we go
okay well think of a graphic for this
let's grab some gif
okay we do some
gifts now we got to do the observation
actions bases thing
I'm sure I've done this slide
somewhere
uh 2D map
on do array
scaler
this thing is flagging the heck out of
slides isn't it yeah this this gift is
too big so I you can't give Google
Slides gifts that are too big apparently
it's so obnoxious that you can't give it
like
anything this there you go you can use
this okay so we get compatible
observations and actions we'll have a
slide on
that fast
simulation F
simulation and then vectorization
I think we get like a good mix of
different types of data
right we do like from the paper
here covers our
bases okay
fast
factorization oh and then we'll put the
link to
my my talk on that right
okay this going well this is going
fairly well I mean these are like really
bad slides but you know we don't care
about that we care about the getting the
high level right
now if I can get like the high level of
this whole talk kind of sketched out at
least somewhat decently today I'll be
very happy
and then we do all the Sciences wrong
which is the fun
one oh there was something outside and I
was just very
confused okay
um first are almost all
wrong all the science is
wrong science
wrong Google can do good
RL M
Pew something like
that all the science is
wrong
um so the things we need to cover
here too
slow well we need to start with the
statistical precipice paper right
can't do
science not this
one what's see is there no like whatever
we'll do this we'll do it this way for
now these are not final
figures I'm intentionally doing this
quick and dirty so I have to redo
everything so I don't get stuck on
anything
we'll put in at least a could a couple
fun memes with this though we'll keep it
mostly pretty serious
uh where's their
paper yeah this is
like this is actually such a good
paper not because of the contents of it
but because of like what we found out
about how freaking screwy it is to try
to do any science in this fa in this
field like if you actually try to do the
science correctly what a pain in the ass
it is
seeds
okay science section should start with
two papers that makes
sense and then let's do
a
sweep we're going to do like a sweep
graphic here
right this is what a freaking this is
what science looks like right
here the parameter sweeps on one g
GPU bad assumptions about single sets of
hyper pram do I want to cover that
I think the sciency section can have
more papers as figures
there's this they have a nice figure I
can
steal you have an archive paper don't
you yeah they have an archive paper here
I can tell every time I open an archive
paper the viewership drops by half so I
can't put too many of these in otherwise
nobody will watch The
Talk white papers are
boring I don't know when the last time
is I've read a full white paper
I get bored and fall
asleep I think I've gotten I've fallen
asleep writing my own white
papers no more of those waste of
time instability of eval results on
classic benchmarks
um do we have any cool figures in here
here
these are kind of
nice do we have a figure that was
showing what how freaking noisy this was
[Music]
Ryan Costa did really good work with
these figures these are very clean
figures
okay did I miss a slide
earlier on Like
Rappers I thought I
did yeah infra on
fire gym gymnasium
Puffer for
do uh what's the other
one St base
three I don't know why this is the logo
this is so funny that have this as the
logo the
heck oh
I should
probably explain where some of this
comes
from but we'll we'll have to do that
after okay the important thing is I have
a placeholder for the
slide so I remember for the narrative
I know like the rough pacing
I want this slide
right looks better
and
oh I need to do the misk section
right yeah misk section
okay
use
dsls don't overuse dsls here
and we
have academic incentives
um let me
think I could put that letter I did
right where the heck did I do this
I probably did it on
puffer let me go grab that real quick
one
sec this was actually a kind of a cool
thing I did I don't really think I'm
going to be doing much of this more
anymore but
um let me go grab the title
page so I wrote this open
letter to nurs DNB
and I actually got the call for papers
changed as a result of this to be more
favorable to infra un
libraries I need something I need a
better image for this but
get some you know some extra stuff in
there black box versus white box that's
easy I'm just going to take this for now
so I know I put an image about black box
versus white box
essentially the goal is to get this
whole thing flow flow through with uh
everything so that I know when I
actually go to spend the time to make
all the graphics and make everything
look good the goal is to spend no time
making Graphics that I don't end up
using
we're going to do the PO
architecture works
have to annotate this
up metal learning curiosity
let's do like this
metal learning
curiosity
[Music]
earning open
endedness then we'll do like
something like this for now
whoops
okay um
oops what the heck you literally can't
even see this
stuff okay
cool we're at about 30 slides in the
deck about 30 slides in the
deck um what time is it 605 it's not
bad not bad at all
how much more do I want to do
today I'm going to go use the
restroom I'll be back in a minute and
then I think I'm going to try to like go
through
this I mean this is not like rehearsing
the
actual what I do when I do presentations
a lot of the time is I go through it a
whole bunch of times just like
absolutely Terri terribly like if I gave
this presentation like this way it would
be terrible but I like I go through in a
way that helps me figure out the
structure of
stuff so I think I'm going to do that a
little bit I'm going to go through a
bunch of the slides like out loud and
figure out the structure so I'll do that
when I'm back and then we'll uh before I
end the stream hopefully I remember if
not hopefully somebody reminds me to
relaunch the uh the pong sweep and I'll
explain what we're doing with that
that's kind of nice
e
e e
all
right is there an Optimum video length
for
YouTube is there an optimal
length I wonder if there's data on that
if I like have anything to shoot
for YouTube video
H I think it doesn't matter
I think any yeah I don't think there's a
a way to game it I think it's just make
good
content which is better
anyways okay let me see if I can get
like a rough estimate of how long I
think this is going to take though at
the same time
you've heard of chat GPT language
models learn by compressing text into
tens or hundreds of billions of weights
but there's AI that learns a whole
different way reinforcement learning
learns through interaction with
simulations it was superum before large
language models existed and has real
world applications so why haven't you
heard of it well it was Making Waves a
few years ago and then it just
stopped I'm Joseph Suarez I am a PhD
from MIT I've been working in
reinforcement learning for 7 years and
this this is the RL Iceberg everything
wrong with reinforcement learning and
how puffer lib is fixing
it how do I want to section
this so like a minute or less for this
opening section I think is the idea I
want to get to the title within like
ideally 30
seconds so even though there's six
slides here this is like 30 seconds of
cont
content it's the most important 30
seconds of content in the
video but it's 30 seconds of
content I might do some cool transition
as well with like I might do a little
bit of light video
editing to have like the uh the chapter
slides you know come up on their
own
something part one the sample efficiency
debacle language models and
reinforcement learning are fundamentally
different language models scale with
compute reinforcement learning scales
with data we know this from research we
have proof that you need a hundred times
less compute for reinforcement learning
which means that you need spend all that
extra time on data something like
that let me give you a comparison with
this old task of training a handwritten
digit classifier you only got 46
megabytes of data but in reinforcement
learning also for very simple tasks we
train on over a terabyte of data and we
have unlimited more where that came from
because we can just run the game for
longer but for some reason researchers
want it to look like this
because this is an uninterpretable point
to
people for some reason researchers want
it to look like this they want
reinforcement learning to learn with a
lot less data or another way a lot more
compute per piece of data a lot of this
comes from robotics because in robotics
you only have so much data cuz you have
to run the robot in the real world you
can't run it any faster than real time
but that's not the only use for RL there
are lots of simulators and other
interactive online processes for which
you have unlimited data and this is
where reinforcement learning really
shines so trying to make RL behave only
in this way is hammering round pegs into
square holes
I don't like that
slide puffer lib is designed to play to
reinforcement learning strengths we
design for high data settings first and
then imply insights from scale to other
lower set lower data settings
after so I think this section just makes
no [__] sense the way that I have it
right
now this makes no sense whatsoever
I'm trying to make it too fast no it's
not that I'm trying to make it too fast
it can be fast but I need to get the
points the points need to be very piffy
if I'm going to do it like this
short I think what we do is we do like
this
we do like this then we put this
here and like this
DOTA two
wait what the heck is
this I'm confused hold
on where's the the
paper single agent scaling
laws this
paper
right optimal model versus
compute proc gen
width so wait this is
[Music]
saying the heck is up with the DOTA 1 V
one
their model was bigger than this wasn't
it oh this because the PED flop days is
pretty short
100 to 1,000 x
what's this
mean am I reading this correctly
whose paper is this as
well I show them in paper okay
coefficient not the exponent of this
relationship oh yeah cuz this amness
thing was like an
RL yeah they did something weird with
this I forgot
reinforcement learning problems need
models
100x
smaller one
one or
1%
size of
let's see LM scale with compute LM scale
with
data now that doesn't make
sense it's parameters
way more data something like
that okay so this is I can get I can try
can get this point to be clear from here
language models need lots of parameters
RL needs lots of data which means for
any amount of compute that you're going
to spend uh reinforcement learning
you're going to spend way more of it on
data
this
matches what we would
want it just so happens that this is the
way we would want
it for language and vision models we
only have so much data because it comes
from The Real World for this mnus data
set this old task we only had 60,000
images 46 megabytes of data for this
relatively simple reinforcement learning
task of breakout we would train this on
200 million images which is over a
terabyte of data and we have have
unlimited more data where that comes
from because we can just run the game
for
longer okay I think that these
two this narrative for these two is good
and then it falls apart here
there
constrain maybe give some
intuition no one expects humans to
master Atari in 10 minutes but rather
through extensive experience it's a bad
analogy is the thing because
reinforcement learning needs way more
data the thing is that you're yes I
could give it but it
requires it requires an extended chain
of logic that's like already going to
lose people so the actual reason for
this is that right reinforcement
learning is way less sample efficient
than humans it needs to be trained on
way way way more data
because reinforcement learning is
tabularasa where humans are not that is
reinforcement learning is a blank slate
it's learning without priors humans have
tons of priors right they already H they
already know how to play the game
without ever having played it more or
less cuz they understand visually what
everything is supposed to mean they
understand that they can press a button
it'll go right it'll go left right they
immediately have the priors to do that
um you know case in point like GPT being
able to play some simple games it's not
learning any of that in real time right
it just knows how to do that from having
seen similar problems so for that reason
it's not comparable but the goal of
reinforcement learning is not
necessarily to learn as fast as humans
right it's to suck up as much data as
possible for the wide number of problems
in which we have unlimited data because
if we have unlimited data and we have a
method that's really good at using
unlimited data to learn very very high
quality policies well that's just
perfect right
so the problem comes when researchers
want to constrain reinforcement learning
to have to be very very sample efficient
and then expect it to do something and
then you know progress gets stalled out
because that's not what reinforcement
learning is good at and the results
don't look all that impressive and then
they move on to language models that's
kind of what
happened
e
e e
100,000 frames
work been
low e
has anybody done this
nope oh come on freaking real therapy
get out of my
recommendations screw you Google
algorithm what game is this
what
Well yeah if you put it like
that yeah
yeah not even close okay I was just
wondering if anybody had done
this
huh for
yo what's popping trying to make this uh
this
talk while watching experiments in the
background going through all the stuff
wrong with reinforcement learning and
what perer is doing about it
it's an interesting talk I'm trying to
make this something that um you know top
reinforcement learning researchers will
learn from but also will be entertaining
and informative to people who are like
brand new to Ai and
RL how are experiments going speaking of
which I don't know why
actually I do know what's happening here
I think it's actually kind of good what
it's
doing let me
see so this is our like mini DOTA
model and it's showing 100 runs
okay and if I look at
like yeah so it's doing a lot of short
runs
okay so what's happening here I think I
figured it out
so the reason that you get this like
quick uptick right with
carbs and then later you know you like
it takes forever after that what's MOA
it's like miniature DOTA you know
defense of the Ancients League of
Legends where do we have one
uh where's my where's the gift for this
I have a bunch of them on Twitter
what happened to me with carbs yeah yeah
yeah but I think it's a feature not a
bug let me find the thing okay yeah
here's our miniature MOA right you have
characters you've got Heroes you've got
waves you've got
enemies it looks like a mooba at a high
level and uh we're doing reinforcement
learning on
it it was sticking to the lower end of
the total time step range because the
uptime cost I think what carbs does is
um and I saw this with pong as well uh
you have to run it for quite a while and
we might have to change the settings for
this I might ask them I might ask the
devs of this so it did some long runs up
front so these are like really long runs
right and then it says okay I know how
to get high reward can I figure out how
to get high reward with less cost like
in less with fewer training steps
basically
right so
when it tries to do that um these are
all short runs you can actually see like
look how look how short the curves are
over here
right like some of them are medium
length but mostly they're short
curves so it's trying to figure out how
to do it with less compute and then
eventually if it can't figure out how to
do it with less compute it'll go back to
using more
compute I think that's how it
works it's kind of smart honestly
because like
these runs are pretty cheap it can do a
lot of them so I think it's trying to
like say okay if these runs are cheap I
can do a lot of them and then maybe I
find a better set of hyper prems versus
investing a whole bunch in these like
really long runs when maybe I find
something that's more
efficient and the really cool thing
about carbs is you use the number of
seconds that the thing takes as the cost
so like it'll just find the settings
that get you your policy the fastest
instead of being samples or some other
[__]
what the hell chat am I
in nice when you set a finite number of
sweeps I wake
up and like 400 of them are a
waste so so have you checked that
they're actually doing something because
there is I think I showed on stream
yesterday there is a bug where if you
look in like all of the results if
they're all like down in the like the
Low Bottom trash um you might just have
runs that are
failing they should not actually be
failing this is the pong sweep
right here let me show you how the p
sweep
worked isn't this kind of
cool right it found like some decent
stuff to start with and then it found
like a different set of distribution of
parameters and then it worked its way
back
up kind of
funky I also I did some analysis on carb
so I'm pretty confident that it's good
have you read this
article I put it in the
chat I basically I gave it a really
really bad like I gave it a really hard
Benchmark in carb TR [__] it and
everything else
failed RL algorithm I'm trying might
just be trash yeah so you actually you
need your RL algorithm to get some sort
of reward if everything is zero then
there's nothing to
optimize I'll link this one at the same
time just for
fun since I see there a few YouTube
people if you're looking for something
funny that's actually kind of legitimate
I don't know not that many people saw
these two articles like everybody saw my
really stupid article but nobody saw the
like the actually kind of fun
ones what the heck is this what is
my I'm not follow oh this is a
repost uh
show damn it I guess it shows reposts
the end reward is one e minus 5 yeah
that's not going to fly uh what I
suggest with carbs is like go find some
somewhat sane hyper parameters first and
then let carbs optimize from there you
got to find cuz like if if you're not
getting reward like who knows you might
not even have anything that makes sense
right like you're like your your
algorithm might just be straight wrong
this is good for
pong let me go back to this talk here
that is the concern but it is an All or
Nothing grid
world you got to find some sort of
reward All or Nothing is not good for
RL
right is this lava gaps wait this is not
lava gaps is
it from minig GD
that's wild you look like want be CEO
but without the
beard I used to have a
beard didn't look
great D key minig
grid you can look at the mini grid
settings I have in puffer they should
give you a decent starting place
proba like if you just tune this with po
if you just tune puffer lib po it'll
probably
work you could do random search as well
just to seed it to find like some random
decent hyper prams it's a decent
option
gu
wal this guy
figure
eight huh why do why what why am I under
this
guy wait why does my profile picture
there that's literally my freaking
profile picture what the
hell l2k
no that's not him looking like me that's
literally
l2k oh cuz he follows me I guess that's
why it shows
up wanb is
cool W is cool
that said give me some credit I think I
am uh substantially more
built unless he's a power lifter
the last few months I pretty much just
been
doing it's been AI running and lifting
that's
it nothing
else that's all that's going on
you know reinforcement learn body
reinforcement learn virtual
agents can't good yeah I mean I was
I can't believe like I think four or
five years ago I just hadn't done any
exercise at all I don't know what the
hell I was
doing best thing I've done is to like
invest in getting in
shape that's it it's a stupid amount of
time now it's like the first four hours
of my
day but hey it's worth it
work from home
yeah yeah it's
rough you got to have goals right you
got to have
goals run and lift back to back
unfortunately yes because it saves time
it' be way better if I split them up but
it saves time
this is an off week for running these
two weeks cuz I'm uh I'm tapering for a
marathon but last week
was um a 10K every day five days you
know five days and then on Sunday 22
miles and then you know this whole five
days of the week was also heavy
powerlifting upper body only deadlifts
and squats really don't mix with running
though I do miss I do miss being able to
train that
more but the dumb cardio is important
unfortunately I don't know going to
probably hit some running goals and then
um back off of it a little bit and see
if I do maybe get my deadlift back
I don't like this
section what other software do you like
using I run a very very minimal stack
for my work
um the whole Dev flow is
everything is containerized inside of
puffer
tank um puffer tank runs locally or on
the puffer boxes or on you know any of
my machines it's got my neovim on it so
then I just Dev directly in on whatever
machine without having to configure
anything
um stuff I like I use w b for
analysis let's see I really like rib for
graphics RB is awesome reinforcement
learning puffer lib is based on uh the
puffer lib implementation it's po first
party is based on clean ARS it's just
adapted from clean ARS cleanar is really
good um what other General stuff do I
use I really don't use very
much oh scyon scyon lately has been the
big thing I love
scon run morning and lift at night so I
can still do legs pretty hard
all right you're nuts I don't know how
you run and I don't know how you run and
do squats or deadlifts it's just like
the next day you're just
dying I don't know what your weekly
running volume is though I've had um the
last two weeks were 53 miles a piece
2530 yeah at 25:30 I think I could still
LIF
the 50 is just like I don't even feel
good running it's just you know you're
just constantly beat to
hell and the other thing is it's even
worse this summer because I'm running
exclusively around the dish so my uh my
10K is also 700 feet elevation gain
that's the really rough
thing I'm not fast though it's slow but
still you know it weighs on you it's
basically just try to complete the
mileage and not get
injured it's the
goal I definitely want to do a marathon
around the dish that's going to be soon
we'll see about
50k I don't think I want to do longer
distance than a 50k for now
though 50 mile is like way too much
training and way too much like you have
to do so much right for a 50 mile to not
get injured as
well I don't know if I'm willing to do
that 50k I could do
do I know I'll probably shift around as
I get bored on stuff
um maybe you know I'll start going for
like a faster half marathon time after I
hit those that would give me less volume
probably lift a little bit more
because basically at the moment I'm just
doing bench and overhead press I'm just
trying to get those two lifts to be nice
and
heavy goal is uh you know 1.5 body
weight bench and um body weight overhead
which I guess would be
like 275 280 is bench
and 180 overhead
getting pretty close I'm only like 20
pounds off of
them
650 I want to to fix like one more thing
on this for the
evening before I hop
off I don't think that this is a good
point the way I'm making it at the
moment
there not the best way I could be making
it e
okay I think I know how I can make this
what I want to convey is there's this
like nearly neur otic obsession over
sample efficiency and reinforcement
learning to the point that academics
would take a look at these two if these
two were different algorithms or
different you know papers and this one
uh is really really fast but 20% less
sample efficient but it trains 10 times
faster they'll take this they will say
that this is bad and this one that takes
20% more samples but 10 times longer to
train is better
I think that's the way to convey how
ridiculous this
is the first one yeah obviously the
first one is better
right unless you're doing like super
constrained robotics
but like this is the problem with
Academia right is that academics will
look at these two and they'll take the
second one this this one will be a
spotlight paper and this one will be
rejected
yes you're right it should be like
this good like
this
so they'll look at these two right and
this one is it takes a little bit more a
few more samples but it's really fast
and then they'll look at this one right
that takes uh a few less samples but
it's really
slow the thing that's difficult for me
to convey is how all these things weave
together to create this like perfect
tapestry of
[__] which is plaguing the field cuz
there's this next section and and I'm
going to have to figure out how to do
this in the talk better cuz there's this
next section where I show that
essentially like the reason that all the
s sence in like all the science in RL is
wrong and the reason that all the
science in RL is wrong is because the
experiments take so long that we can't
run enough of them and one of the
reasons the experiments take so long is
because of this is that we select for
experiments that take
forever
e
for
e e
I guess the question is if we have
algorithms that learn optimal policies
with infinite samples then what is there
to do in that regime versus the
constraint sample because it's not
infinite samples well I guess it's
that's not the way I look at it so
there's this
paper uh there have been a couple papers
now that show that for a fixed amount of
compute that you're going to spend
training a model right if you're
training a language model you're going
to have a way bigger Network so you're
going to use way less data right because
that compute can only go through so many
samples because it's a really big model
in reinforcement learning you end up
with waste smaller models that go
through way more data that is the
optimal regime for reinforcement
learning so if we want to be efficient
with our compute efficient with our
resources then we should optimize for
using a ton of data that's the argument
like you're essentially just slowing
everything down by insisting that uh we
excessively optimize for sample
efficiency and mind you with in if we
have an algorithm that in that instantly
learns from tons of samples then we're
set you still have to run the
algorithm so let me give you a little
back of the envelope here this is kind
of cool
so I've got this MOA right uh this MOA
is I think one million-ish steps per
second let's say 1 million steps per
second this is going to blow your mind
so 16 C is 16 million steps per second
let's say we have good enough
factorization to do that cuz we kind of
do
okay time 60
seconds uh per minute times 60 minutes
per hour time 24 hours per day this is
the number of samples per
day we're going to divide this
by 1
E9 this is
13300 billion steps per second uh let's
say that the observation size is about a
kilobyte which it
is okay uh one9 is billion so that's
gigabytes let's do one2 terabytes so
we're producing 1.3 pedabytes of data
simulated data per day on One
desktop so you're not advocating for
algorithm advancement but instead using
existing algorithms to learn cool
policies by providing them with the
necessary data that's not exactly what
I'm saying uh I'm saying that we I'm
saying that we're using our
reinforcement learning in a very bad
data regime right now so what I'm saying
is we're throwing away most of our
compute if you're not using your compute
efficiently then you're not making
progress right if we were throwing away
effectively 95% of our compute then we
wouldn't have GPT for another 10 years
because you simply need a certain amount
of compute to produce that result right
so I'm saying that we should not be
optimizing for very slow simulators we
should be optimizing for fast simulators
because for reinforcement learning
that's where we can more optimally
allocate our compute and that's what
allows us to do things like run 500
experiment long hyper parameter sweeps
overnight on one GPU in order to get
comprehensive evaluation of our
algorithms and if we want to advanc
algorithms we can get comprehensive
evaluation of every new thing that we
propose so this essentially allows us to
do good science because almost every
reinforcement learning paper out there
is wrong at the moment and provably
wrong because they do not have the
compute to run enough experiments on
their slow
environments that was like three ideas
jumbled into one but hopefully that's
mostly clear
why is the focus on Sample efficiency a
problem then because it comes at the
cost of making our algorithm slower and
slower in wall clock time so if you make
your algorithm 10 times slower in wall
clock time and that's now the Baseline
to beat right that means you get to run
10 times fewer experiments and the
environments are already so slow that
you cannot run enough experiments to be
statistically significant so basically
the vast majority of RL research is just
a shot inth the dark
because the results that are published
are so noisy that they cannot be used to
conclude
everything they cannot be used to
anything this is why we have like 100
plus published uh new reinforcement
learning algorithms and nothing has
displaced po because when you actually
use it on you know a non a non-canned
problem that you've actually you know
done correct comparisons on poo kind of
just wins
another way of looking at this is that
if we increase our compute efficiency
right this allows us to do better
science on Fast environments which not
the which is not the same as simple
environments right we can make hard
complex environments we can make them
fast so this allows us to do more
research better with any amount of
compute
resources and to draw more generalizable
insights that we can then apply to other
problems where we don't have that
luxury isn't fast environments
beneficial yes exactly fast environments
is beneficial to everything
um but the thing is if your environment
is fast and you have a s you have an
algorithm
like the problem is that the sample
efficient algorithms are trading off
compute okay it's not that like it's not
that it's bad to learn fast it's that
they're trading off wall clock time
right so usually what they're doing is
they're trying to reuse the same sample
a hundred times rather than just getting
a hundred times fresh samples because
they're free and like having more data
is always better than having less data
so you're always going to learn faster
if you have a 100 times more fresh
samples than 100 times stale samples so
making better algorithms to learn from
stale
data is actually making it harder to
push the research forward because of how
much longer it takes to train anything
and therefore how much longer it takes
to conclude anything because of the
number of experiments you need to run to
attain statistical significance
here's another case for you
so this is a paper I'm the senior author
on this one right um we burn 10,800
hours doing three Atari seeds for five
very very simple ablation because Atari
is actually that slow and because the
default setting that RL has converged on
in the name of of sample efficiency is
actually this low with the current
approach that I have now right I could
do this the same sort of a thing
in probably between 5 and 700 a 100
hours the same exact
thing basically they're not maximizing
GPU throughput because they're doing
intermediate computation instead of
continuous interaction with the
environment uh
well sometimes they are maximizing GPU
throughput but they're doing like really
useless work right so like the Baseline
in reinforcement
learning well actually sometimes they're
not doing either to be fair sometimes
the the status quo the default is that
your GPU sits at 5%
utilization right because you only run
like a very small number of environments
and you use really really small
matches so your GPU sits at 5%
utilization and then you train and then
like you know your your thing will train
in uh two hours in two like it'll train
in like an hour or two hours on like 2
to three million steps instead of in
five minutes on like 10 million steps
where's the puffer thing okay so this
pong sweep right
here each of these runs is like between
5 and 12 minutes I think 5 and 12
minutes uh if I were to do this with the
classic Atari settings that people use
then this would
be like 2 to 3 hours per ride
actually
more isn't this because of the need for
on policy data no this is on
policy what I'm doing is on policy
because mini matching technically isn't
Computing true policy gradient okay
that's a fair objection yeah that's a
fair objection but that's still nobody
makes that distinction that's still
considered on policy mini batching is
still considered on policy it's when
you're storing archives after an update
like if you're doing Rainbow or DQ right
where you have a replay buffer that's
considered off policy you are
technically correct that mini batching
introduces some off polic I actually
found that out um I I was the one that
found this recently uh that the PO paper
the actual paper itself does not contain
mini batching in the same way it does it
uh it doesn't show uh the the paper
shows gradient accumulation so actually
it would be fully on policy because it
would accumulate gradient over mini
batches that was the implication but
none of the implementations do this so
technically there's a discrepancy in the
you know the biggest paper in the
field that's pretty crazy
I'm assuming radient accumulation is
much worse not necessarily it depends on
the
environment because it's just doing what
not
necessarily there's um have you seen the
the open AI blog SLP paper how AI
training
scales harder environments inherently
require bigger mini
batches because the gradient noise this
the gradient noise increases right you
need more samples in harder environments
in order to make accurate
updates there's actually there's a
critical batch size for every
environment and not just for every
environment for every uh every point in
an environment so every Anye quality
policy it's based on the local
difficulty of the
problem it's pretty cool
there you go
it used to be a way better blog post
there used to be like this interactive
thing where you could slide a bar around
and see like the optimal Frontier it
might be in way back machine or
something but it's still good and
there's a paper linked in here I
think why they keep redoing their we
website and being weird with
it there's literally a new paper that
says small batches are better link it I
don't believe
it link it I bet I find I bet I find
that it's wrong in five minutes
it'll be the last thing I do I'm going
to check that paper I'll relaunch the
experiment and then I'll call it for the
day but I do not believe
that because I the thing is I run
hyperparameter sweeps Right Where You
autotune the batch size and the mini
batch size and everything and
consistently I get uh for more like for
larger scale environments I consistently
get uh optimal hyper parameters at
bigger batch and mini batch sizes
it's also impossible that small batches
are better in wall clock time because
they do not make good utilization of GPU
do you have the
link what's the name of the paper I'll
Google
it you can paste the name
I don't know I like big batch and I
cannot lie oh my gosh do you see this
guy you see this guy right
here I've reviewed two [__] papers
by this guy
today I know he's very well known I've
reviewed two [__] papers by this guy
today
castra is usually
cool well that's not
true batch size eight
well first of all this is a dumb sample
efficiency claim right here because this
is four times
slower at small batch size performance
gain is
linear so this is literally four times
slower so if we were to stretch this
graph out by a factor of four right
then this should be here uh this should
be way over here and then this should be
like way up there because you get so
much more
training actually we know exactly right
here we take this point because it takes
four times longer so we take this point
versus this point this point is
better e
off policy experiments on Atari
only standard
agents okay well if they're saying that
this thing doesn't solve the
environment that this thing completely
plateaus then this is a bad like this is
a bad Baseline to begin
with for
figure two we can observe
this was your
fault because of the paper that you
wrote
this is not
true this is not true you have a bad
algorithm implementation this is not
possible smaller this is simply not
true you're using one of these janky
deep mine libraries that like has a wonk
imp implementation it should be strictly
four times faster I do not trust this
one bit I've reviewed two bad papers by
this guy
today not counting this one
yeah this is wrong this is just this is
like not technically possible this got
into nups he got a spotlight like this
is the thing this is the exact thing
wrong with the [__] uh the RL Ecco
system let me show you so I just found
this today this is like one of the most
widely cited papers uh in the area so
here's one this is the makado paper
where he introduces best practices for
Atari he introduces this rapper that
becomes widely widely
used where is
it he's a very famous researcher but
like I honestly like I'm getting really
bad vibes from some of this work so here
is this rapper which has a 25% chance of
essentially holding down your keyboard
key when you try to take a different
action so 25% of chance of that your
controller but it and just getting stuck
and he says that this does not impact
learning of reasonable algorithms this
only impacts algorithms that are
attempting to exploit determinism so you
should use this to better uh to better
track evaluation now anybody who's ever
played a game in their life goes hm it
seems like there are a lot of games
where having my controller stuck would
make it really hard to do precise inputs
and would eventually get me killed oh
that's interesting they only include
results for cqu and Space Invaders what
happens if I scroll down to their
appendix oh look they completely fail to
solve
breakout and pong which are two of the
most consistent tasks out there where
the original dqm does like more than
twice as good does like way better on
both of these
dqn original perfectly solves pong and
gets double this score on
breakout so yeah here's like an
incredibly damaging like I think this
was a spotlight paper was it no it was
the other one that was a spotlight paper
okay here's the other one sticky keys is
super common I thought it was to prevent
superhuman control nope it was
apparently to prevent exploiting
determinism um and I'm going to run this
is the experiment I'm running right
after this is I'm going to use his
setting and see if you can even solve
pong with it because I think that this
is
[__] and I mean this is the exact
type of thing where like Academia oh
look this looks like a good way to do
the generalization and then it ends up
screwing stuff over the other one is let
me find it
uh this is the other one so this is like
an incredibly well cited in respected
paper
right it's technically correct this one
isn't even
wrong so this one he argues that
basically all of RL is wrong like all
the scientific results is wrong except
the ones that are done by Google because
researchers are not running enough
experiments to obtain statistical
significance I use that Li you can use
the library the library is fine but
here's the thing like think about what
this paper is saying this paper is
saying that is wrong
because you don't run enough experiments
well why don't you run enough
experiments you don't run enough
experiments because you're optimizing
for sample efficiency and making
everything really really slow in wall
clock time and researchers don't have
enough compute resources to run these
bloody experiments so if you wanted to
fix this problem the way to do it is to
not release this Library like this is
not the way to fix the problem the way
to fix this problem is to make the
bloody environments faster and then you
don't have a problem cuz you can run 100
seeds which is exactly what I just did
with pong I can run 100 seeds I can run
200 seeds in a day right for 10 20
million whatever I want so there you go
so this is literally like Google
researcher says that only Google
research is correct because we made the
stupid environments too hard to learn
right because they're too
slow so this was dumb
this paper is like heralded as like the
Holy Grail of like what's wrong with
reinforcement learning and this is like
an entirely obvious observation that
completely misses the
point are you running seeds
sequentially I'm not running seeds at
the moment I'm running hyper parameters
you can equally as well run seeds though
the point is that the environments are
slow right that's the reason for this
the reason is that RL it's not that RL
researchers don't know that they should
run more seeds it's that the code's
bloody
slow and now here you're telling me that
they have a paper in which they're
saying that eight batch size is
good which is like the worst possible
thing you can do from a hardware
perspective in fact where's their wall
clock time report wall clock time let me
see 40 hours how many frames is this
human normalized
scores end step what is this what is
this plot running I want to see what
it's doing
over 20
games I don't know what this plot is
showing he didn't make clear what
experiments this is running
is there an appendix
did he not even retune the hyper
parameters oh
jeez whatever this is you see that this
is a 40-hour Atari experiment
so I don't think he's running billions
of frames because I could be running
billions of frames in this amount of
time crazy
paper for
yeah this is
nutty they mention as well that they
only tuned the um not only is this like
impossible from a hardware perspective I
think that they only
tuned the learning
rate yeah it looks like they only
retuned the learning
rate smaller the learning rate the
larger the batch size needs to
be no that's wrong you have it backwards
your implementation is not dividing your
implementation is doing a sum instead of
a a mean or
something that's simply not true
crazy
well
ridiculous mean occurs over many
batches it should be dividing by samp
such that your learning rate is per
sample um because otherwise you couple
your learning rate to mini
batch this is insane like this is I this
is just completely
insane like I don't know if they found
some weird thing where like for this
specific algorithm if you don't retune
hyper parameters or whatever it does
better in terms of sample efficiency
like maybe they found a niche weird
thing thing but I can tell you right now
that this result where is it this result
is just
wrong it will be straight up it will be
straight up four times faster with batch
size 32 than batch size eight and it
will probably be eight times faster with
batch size
64 the optimal batch size is so much
larger than this it's not even funny
like nobody even uses batch size as
small as 64 like
minimum it's craziness
all right I'm going
to I I don't know what's up with this I
didn't set out today to go [__] on Mark
belmare like I opened three papers that
all had substantial problems and they
all happen to be you know I know Pablo's
good isn't
he I mean they're probably advisers at
this point right
still though you should know that
there's like there's no way it's faster
in wall clock
time I don't know they're probably you
know so senior advisers now they
probably don't even read the
papers I don't I hope I'm not [__]
on like some Junior researcher student
um which is probably the
case but the thing that weirds me out is
that like this stupid makado
paper this paper is not wrong this is
just like missing the point so whatever
I
I this paper ended up doing a lot of
damage I think just because like it's
the wrong message um but whatever the
one that was really pissed me off was
the makato paper because that one
actually it looks like has done some
damage I'm going to run it now and um if
by tomorrow if I wake up and I have like
a conclusive sweep where like hey yeah
you can't solve pong with this stupid
rapper then yeah I'm going to have to
I'm going to make a cool post about it
and like hey maybe you know we just
remove this [__] A aari becomes
deterministic again nobody cares and uh
you know we continue to to move on
that is
insane okay it's this one
so we run this with repeat action prob
zero we take this out so it does not
sweep over this parameter
that's crazy
though we found some good stuff today
I genuinely hate the amount of time that
I end up spending [__] on other
people's work but like this field is
freaking cursed it's cursed for a
reason I'd be way happier if I were like
reviewing all the awesome things that
were coming out every day fixing RL but
it's been 10 years and ain't nothing
happened they're like single digit
number of people that have released like
really really good stuff that's really
pushed the field forward and then there
like a lot of papers that have been
nothing burgers at best and at worst
like actively misleading to the
field we'll see whether this turns out
to be one of them we'll see this should
give me conclusive evidence either way
right if I run a really aggressive
hyperparameter
sweep and it learns to set the repeat
action probability down and then it like
it solves pong cool and then I run a
really aggressive hyper parameter Sweep
with with a known good implementation
with a known good search algorithm right
and it doesn't solve it or it has a way
harder time solving it right then that
would mean that this parameter is the
problem we will
see we will
see
okay well that was uh roller coaster of
a day
um I
am couple last things here
folks I see for some reason there are a
lot of people on YouTube like in uh
whenever I just start ranting about
stuff I guess the viewership goes up so
I guess it's good
entertainment um let me
see so if you want to support this work
if you want to support the mission to
make reinforcement learning sane again I
guess it never was sane so just make it
sane best way to do that is to just help
me out star just star the repository
it's all I ask it's all open source work
all these new environments that are in
slev are getting merged into 1.1
relatively soon in a big simulation
update all this hyperparameter search is
all open source it's going to be
great if you want to contribute
discord.gg
puffer your free to chat in there find
something to do around the project new
environment new feature whatever it's
going to be testing experiments whatever
you're good with um we do list
contributors on the main page as long as
it's you know a substantial contribution
not just like a typo
fix I post all this stuff on Twitter
it's exclusively for well almost
exclusively for research I post some
articles as well there
and that's about it I
will I probably won't be streaming
tomorrow much if at all uh I've got a
I'm going to do like some co-working on
a different environment that is not
announced yet but there's some you know
some more stuff coming to puffer so
probably won't be streaming tomorrow or
only will be streaming like in the
morning or in the later in the evening
something like that uh I will
be if I am streaming it'll be to go over
the pong results maybe to write that
crazy R if this ends up being actually
the case that the makato rappers are
bad
um checking on the mobile results and
maybe making a little bit more progress
on the talk that's all thanks folks have
a nice evening and catch you around
thanks for dropping by